On Your Trip To The HOLY LAND
Coin CLIPPER
omtort'
No matter what Clipper service you choose you’ll be traveling with the airline that has made over 39,000 transatlantic crossings. And there’s nothing like knowing you’re in the capable hands of the same global-experienced crews that man Pan American’s luxury Clippers . . . the same maintenance personnel that keeps all Pan American equip-ment in A-l condition . . . and the same 6-continent service team1 that plans, checks and controls every ground and air operation of “the World’s Most Experienced Airline” from Take-off to Arrival.
Return Another Route...and Include Rome
With Pan Am’s alternate routings you can vary your return to include more stopovers at the same low Round Trip Fare. For example, you can go via Pan Am’s London Gateway and return, as so many prefer, via the Holy City of Rome, to explore the Vatican and Sistme Chapel, Ancient Rome and the Catacombs, and perhaps climax your trip with a Papal audience. Continuing home via Lisbon permits you to include a stop at world-famous Fatima, nearby. Also, the Azores. No matter how you look at it, you’ll save time and money . . . get around more comfortably . . . enjoy yourself more enroute . . . and see and do more in Europe and the Holy Land when you go — both ways — by Pan American Clipper.
Choose D'pour Services
Going by Clipper gives you a choice of services. The President, of course, is Pan Am’s fast, luxury service via London or Paris and Rome. Even more luxurious, is the extra-fare President Special, featuring more attendants, fewer passengers, the finest wines, liqueurs, meals prepared by Maxim’s of Paris, and Pan Am’s exclusive bed-length Sleeperette chairs with leg-support extensions.
PAA
Experience Pays Ojf in Peace of Tiiind
and See More of EUROPE, Too
You’re sitting on top of the world when you head for Europe and the Holy Land by Clipper. Surrounded by congenial companions, the time will pass almost too quickly. And whether you choose a regular-fare or extra-fare flight, or the Rainbow Tourist Service you’ll be in Europe in hours. You can count on a much longer and more varied stay since you’ll be able to stop over enroute at any of the 25 cities Pan American serves on the continent. Then at your leisure you can continue to Istanbul or Beirut. Or, if you wish, you can fly direct to Istanbul and Beirut — via the 6 through Clipper flights every week from New York — and there board Middle East Airlines, Pan American affiliate, for the 1 hr.
15 min. ride to Jerusalem.
Both services operate Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers, with lower deck lounges and, at slight extra charge, extralength berths. The Rainbow, Pan Am’s wonderful new Clipper Tourist Service, gives you famous Clipper speed and dependability at the lowest fares ever to Europe . . .
brand new Douglas Super-6 Clippers . . . frequent departures . . . and low-cost meals served in flight. There’s frequent service during the week with through flights to Istanbul and Beirut in Douglas Super-6 Clippers as well as Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers. All are First Class
services.
Clipper and Sleeperette, Trademarks Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. Copyright 1952, Pan American World Airways, Inc.