
INSPIRATION FOR A LIFETIME
T*
he day after tomorrow — thanks to Pan American’s speedy Clippers—-you can actually be roaming through Bethlehem and the Field of the Shepherds, visiting the Church of the Nativity and, in the Cave beneath it, the Holy Manger. From Nazareth and the Church of the Annunciation you’ll retrace Christ’s life on earth to Kafr Kanna, honored as the site of the Cana Wedding Feast and His first miracle. You’ll linger everywhere, from beautiful Mt. Tabor . . . where He was transfigured and where you’ll visit the church commemorating the event ... to the shores of Galilee — Tabgha, in particular, where you’ll find the Church of the Multiplication of the: Loaves and the hill nearby revered as the site of His Sermon on the Mount.
fo tlye
You’ll go from Naim and Bethany, where He raised the widow’s son and Lazarus from the dead, to the Upper Room of the Last Supper. The building’s revered by Christians, Jews and Moslems alike, since it’s said to contain the Tomb of David. You’ll drive up the Mount of Olives . . . and visit the Garden of Gethsemane where, in the lovely Church of All Nations, you’ll pause to pray for “the peace which the world cannot give”. And at the Holy Sepulchre you’ll see the church that Constantine began in the 4th century and which the Crusaders completed in 1099.
And while you’re in Jordan and Arab Jerusalem you’ll also visit the ancient Wailing Wall . . . the stations of the Cross . . . and the healing Pool of Bethesda. You’ll explore the River Jordan and, 1200 feet below sea level, the amazing Dead Sea, four times lower than our own Death Valley. And once you see the Mosque of Omar you’ll understand why this “Glory of Islam” is called one of the world’s most beautiful buildings.
This “Dome of the Rock” dates back 12 centuries.
Tradition says this is where David prayed, Abraham prepared to sacrifice Isaac, and Solomon built his fabulous temple.
& ec tlye c/Vcw* â.

w»e/
You’ll take time out to swim at the fine eastern Mediterranean beaches and explore the
. . Israel . . . bustling You’ll see Tel Aviv, and irrigation
world’s newest nation . with immigrant pioneers, truly the “City of Tomorrow projects, cooperatives, new industries and buildings everywhere.
You’ll visit medieval Jewish synagogues and picturesque mosques, as well as countless Christian churches . . . the Tomb of Absalom, dating back to the Greeks and Romans. You’ll explore Ain Karim and Lydda, legendary birthplaces of John the Baptist and England’s patron, St. George. And Beersheba, where Abraham, Isaac and Jacob lived. At Ramleh, traditional home of Joseph of Arimathea, you’ll recapture some of the magic of Arabian Nights around the pool of Har A1 Rashid. And occasionally in Galilee you’ll be memory-deep in the Crusades. For you’ll explore Acre, the famous citadel of Richard the Lion Heart, and Montfort Castle, seat of the Teutonic Knights.
And even if Mt. Carmel weren’t associated with Elias and the founding of the Carmelite Order, you’d still head for this lovely always-green landmark just for the view of the busy port, Haifa, and the whole eastern Mediterranean. And up on the summit you’ll explore the monastery. Its earlier buildings, since destroyed, were once used by Napoleon for his injured troops.
While there, you’ll want to visit the domed church, constructed in the form of a Greek Cross, and the magnificent altar with its great statue of Our Lady of Mt. Carmel by the famous Italian sculptor, Caraventa.
cA


f7
weet
One of the delightful discoveries of your Holy Land stay will be the Arab food. It’s sheer magic what they do with herbs and you’ll love the way they barbecue their meat on skewers. Lamb especially. Try it barbecued in chunks, Lahm Mishwi, or ground and seasoned, Kufta Mishwi. . . cooked with okra and a sauce, Bamhi Bi Lahm, or with stuffed grape leaves and rice, Warak Enab. But don’t neglect their fine salads or Laban, their Yogurt. Start with an appetizer like Hoomis Tahinie — it’s a whole meal in itself—and top it off with a demi-tasse of their strong aromatic coffee and one of their unforgettable desserts . . . Baklawa, for example, paper-thin strips of pastry stuffed with nuts and covered with a delicious honey sauce.
' ' i	'"îi
WHEN PLANNING YOUR ITINERARY
. . . remember that most of the places you’ll want to see in the Holy Land are in Jordan . . . the rest, in Israel. So, you’ll probably want to visit the Arab-held section first and, on your way back, cross the frontier at Jerusalem into Israel. But leave the details to your Travel Agent. He can arrange it conveniently so you can go via Beirut and return to Europe via Rome. And from Beirut, of course, you can either fly the Clipper back to Europe and the U. S., or, if you wish, you can continue on to India, Hong Kong and all the way round the world.
CHOOSE ONE OF THE MANY LOW-COST TOURS
You can start one of the many Cost Inclusive Pan Am Holiday tours any time. And vary it so that you’ll spend as little or as much time as you like in Europe or in the Holy Land. You can also include more stopovers, if you wish, and enjoy alternate routings on the way back. Because you can take advantage of Pan Am’s Rainbow, the lowest-fare-ever Tourist Clipper Service, these air tours, of course, are economical, too. And it’s good to know that if you’re out of the U. S. for more than 12 days (and less than 6 months) you may bring back $500 worth of souvenirs and gifts duty free — $200 worth for any lesser period.
Pas American World Airways
c^/he ^World's ^^Jflos