'Si
KAUAI
AIRKUIT
OAHU
MAGNIFICENT
l AROUND THE WORtO
You’ll find the Valley Isle colorful, hospitable and alive with legends. Drive along the coast on a road cut out of cliffs. Stay in towns like Lahaina where, more than a century ago, windjammers anchored each winter, 400 at a time. Or stay at a more pretentious resort — say, at historic Hana, where the island’s famous battles were fought. You’ll drive there from the airport through lush tropical foliage and spectacular gorges amid the deafening roar of cascading mountain streams.
You’ll head for Haleakala. All Manhattan Island could fit inside this “House of the Sun”, the largest inactive crater on earth. Everyone comes here to view the sunrise and sunset, 10,000 feet above the sea. It’s worth the entire trip to see the changing colors on the cinder cones that rise, high as the Chrysler Building, from way down on the crater floor. See lush Iao Valley by moonlight in all its silent, eerie beauty. By day, too, so you can see how prankish Nature can be as you view the “green-gloved” 1200-foot solid monolith, Iao Needle, wearing a whimsical necklace of colorful kukui trees.
Take time to swim at sheltered, coral-free beaches ... to explore “Old Hawaii” in the tiny fishing villages ... to see the world’s finest cane and pineapple plantations, the bamboo forest, the lava flows and jungles . . . and to jjMr |l| f-	pose beside an ape ape plant
'	for snapshot proof that its
leaves grow three feet wide.
OAHU

PEARL
HARBOR
■SARSEisVQWr * t
Honolulu ’***♦:♦
Waikiki Beach
THE GARDEN
Sunshine, surf and spectacular tropical scenery set the stage for informal fun.
ISLE” - That's
Oldest and greenest, too! You’ll probably want to do the North Shore one day . . . the South Shore, the next. Take the boat up the Wailua River to the lush Fern Grotto . . . see huge Honopu where Nature’s carved an arch straight through a mountain. Explore the weird Haena caves and awe-inspiring Napali, the
rugged silent cliffs that plunge into the sea. You’ll visit Koloa, Hawaii’s original sugar plantation . . . discover how crops are protected with fluttering flags and jangling bells . . . and view Hanalei Bay and Valley to learn why, in island mythology, it’s the “Birthplace of Rainbows”.
Don’t miss Nohili where the sand barks under your foot. Or Spouting Horn geyser where the surf puts on a show complete with sound effects. Swim and surf at Poipu and Hanalei on powder white beaches fringed with palms and hail trees. Or swim in sparkling fresh water pools like the famous one at Waipahee Falls. If you’re a rifle-and-reel fan, head with a guide, via boat and pack horse, for game along the Napoli Trail and camp out amid spectacular settings that even some islanders themselves haven’t seen.
You’ll never forget Waimea Canyon and the way mist and sunlight keep changing its colors from blues and greens in the morning to fiery copper and brilliant reds later on. Or the view from the Lookout where you’ll gaze down on the floor of Kalalau Valley and on to the open sea.
Fish by torchlight or net -catches rival the rainbow.
MOLOKAI
MAUI