Drenched, in tingling spray, you'll race shoreward on surfboard or outrigger canoe.
You’ll live outdoors in Hawaii and love each sun-tan minute.
You won’t be a malihini — newcomer — for long. Within hours Hawaii will capture every sense completely. For you not only see Hawaii. You feel it. Waikiki’s sun enfolds you, dissolves your tensions and bronzes your skin. Trade winds brush your hair and the surging surf envelops you with tingling bubble baths. You breathe Hawaii in the fragrant leis of plumarias and tuberose round your neck. You taste it at a luau, under a banyan or monkey pod, feasting on luscious mangoes and avocadoes, savory laulau, and poi that you’ll eat one, two or three-fingered style. You hear Hawaii in the wj? rustling palms silhouetted against the stars \ y ... in the exciting rhythms as lava iara-clad / wahines perform the hula ... in the whispered melodies and haunting strains of the guitar. You’ll never want to leave. For here’s living! Take things easy or go in for the active life. Golf I on your choice of a dozen courses . . . hunt for I mountain goat, pheasant or quail. You’ll fish...
I offshore for record tuna and marlin, inland lor [ bass or trout. Fish native fashion, too, with torchlight and spear or at a hukilau, community fishing party, helping to haul in the net and joining the feasting afterward.	£
MALIHINI!
Hawaiian temperature is heavenly. There’s less than 10 degrees variation here between summer and winter, between noon and midnight. So come any time . . . see all the islands, including Molokai and Lanai . . . only an hour or so from Honolulu by air. Stay on the isle of your choice at a swank hotel, modest resort or kitchen-equipped bungalow. And to see the sights, rent a bike, a horse or a car with driver-guide or not, as you wish. Yes — it’s the vacation you’ve promised yourself. And this year you can make it come true ... by Clipper.
THE HUB-
Honolulu’s the Heart
Kipling was wrong. Honolulu proves East and West do meet. And the result sparkles. It’s fascinating from the midtown crater to the Open Market where nationalities are as varied as the fish on display. From atop famed Aloha Tower you’ll view the bustling harbor with its round-the-world freighters, native sampans and youngsters diving for coins. You’ll visit native art exhibits ... a church built of coral . . . Iolani Palace, to see the only Throne Room under the U. S. flag . . . and Bishop Museum, for the world’s greatest Polynesian collection.
You’ll browse among the swank shops .and native bazaars and bring back clothing and native crafts, porcelains and jades. You’re in for new taste thrills sampling all the exciting native and continental dishes. You’ll dine Chinese style, too, from sharksfin soup to delicacies like wun

You’ll learn native skills against a backdrop of Diamond Head and Waikiki.
///
tun, and in the Japanese manner, with kimona-clad attendants serving sukiyaki from charcoal stoves. At night, you’ll join the gaiety . . . it’s suave and cosmopolitan at hotels and night spots . . . soothing, haunting and very informal at a luau under a! sprawling hala tree.
At Waikiki, you’ll bask in the sun and ride the surf as you always planned. But with so much to see on Oahu you’ll want to drive through jungle, cane and pineapple fields and over highways sandwiched between iron wood trees and fragrant hibiscus. Along the way, watch for water buffalo plowing the taro patches . . . Kaneohe’s fantastic coral gardens . . . and the Blow Hole, where the rock formation makes a Roman Candle of the surf. Don’t miss Nuuanu Pali — this panorama from the Koolau range is world famous. Take in Pearl Harbor, of course, and Schofield Barracks.
And especially the spectacular view . . . mountain and sea, city and harbor . . . from high up on Diamond Head and out along Tantalus Skyline Drive.