table taste thrill.

REALLY
"THE BIG ISLAND”
And still growing! See how Nature does the job with volcanoes ... at seething, hissing Kilauea Crater, “the pit of eternal fire” ... or famed Mauna Loa, 14,000 feet above the sea. Mix geology and headlines ... as you trace eruptions you’ve read about ... in the grotesquely sculptured lava flows that stretch clear down to the sea. Head high up the slopes of inactive Mauna Kea to take in the view, to hunt for wild boar or ski on the tropical snow.
There’s a little of everything here on Hawaii . . . from cactus to lush jungles, from coffee and cane fields to a forest of ferns, 40 feet high. You’ll find Akaka Falls twice as high as Niagara and, aboard a sampan from Hilo, you’ll see Rainbow Falls live up to its name. Hamakua’s gorges and cascades will make you catch your breath. Stroll through Honau-nau, ancient city of refuge, and native villages like
Even golf scores seem to lower in the tension-free Land of Aloha.
Napoopoo, nearly buried in brilliant foliage. Stop to take back samples of the sands at Punaluu and Kalapana beaches to prove they’re really black.
Shop at big, busy Hilo and send home by Clipper one of the 22,000 fragrant varieties of orchids that grow in this “Orchid Capital”. You’ll fall in love with the Kona Coast and never want to leave. In this “Down Where the Trade Winds Play” land you can battle marlin more than twice your size.
Or you can laze in the sun, forget calendar and clock and the cares of a world-in-a-hurry and live like a native in the days before Captain Cook.

Reasons Why You’ll Want to Go Now . . . and Go By CLIPPER
You can enjoy a wonderful Hawaiian vacation even if you’ve only a week or two.
The weather’s always “May” in Hawaii. Average temperature in Honolulu is 70° in February ... 78° in August. Hawaii has a full calendar of special attractions 12 months of the year.
You don’t need a passport. No customs are involved — and there’s no limit on the amount of merchandise you bring back.
Pan American offers the fastest, finest service to the Islands, using famous Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers in both the deluxe President and Rainbow Clipper Tourist fare services.
You can leave from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle or Portland, choosing either service. And there are convenient, frequent, day and night departures.
No additional charge for the famous Clipper meals enroute ... or on President flights, for the Sleeperette Service, exclusive with Pan American, that gives you a chair with double the leg room by day
and converts to comfortable bed length when you want to sleep.
On The President you travel 1st class, Pan American style ... 1st class accommodations, 1st class service. Yet there’s no extra charge of any kind unless you prefer a full-sized berth (slight additional charge) on one of the night flights. No tipping on Clippers.
Pan American’s Rainbow, the Clipper Tourist service, offers low-cost fares from the West Coast. Only $125 one way — $250 round trip.
From wherever you are on the Mainland, domestic airlines provide direct connections through all of Pan American’s gateways. Ask about routings that permit you to go through one gateway, return through another, and thus let you see much more at little or no extra cost.
If you’re on a Round-the-World Clipper Tour . . . traveling between California and the Orient or South Pacific . . . you are allowed a liberal stop-over at Honolulu.
LET AN EXPERT HELP YOU PLAN
Your Travel Agent knows the ropes and keeps up-to-date on accommodations, local conditions and available low-cost Clipper Holidays to Hawaii. He can not only relieve you of details like reservations, bookings, planning sightseeing trips, etc.,
but he’ll make sure you see and do more in Hawaii. And probably save you money, too. Yet you pay no more for his expert advice and professional services. So — start out right. See your Travel Agent. Why not plan to see him today?
Ask for a copy of "Pan Am Holidays to Hawaii

System of the Flying Clippers
Pan American World Airways