portable bassinet, he must be removed from the bassinet and held until the seat belt sign has been turned off. Passenger’s seat belts should not be used for children under two.
If your child is over two years old, he should be seated upright in his own seat for take-off and landing. If the seat belt does not fit snuggly over his hips, place a pillow behind his back. During the flight we recommend that you keep the seat belt loosely fastened around your child. Then if the Fasten Seat Belt sign is turned on during the flight it will not be necessary to disturb your child if he is sleeping.
Please keep children out of the aisles and galley areas during meal services to prevent accidents. We do not recommend that small children be permitted to wander around the aircraft alone. During flight, especially during night flights, we suggest that you check your child frequently. You may want to carry a pocket flashlight with you for this purpose. Please, NEVER leave an infant unattended.
Before departure, consult the Safety Information Folder in the seat pocket in front of you for special instructions pertaining to children. If you have any questions about emergency procedures, ask your flight attendant who is an expert in cabin safety.
Some Problems that Can Be Avoided
With small children, and particularly with infants, it is much easier to anticipate and avoid problems rather than to try to correct them. The most common problems are ear pain, nausea and restlessness.
Ear pain can be caused by the changes in cabin pressure. During flight the cabin altitude goes from ground level to approximately 7,000 feet—and back to ground level just prior to landing. This means that the amount of air pressure on the ear will lessen during take-off, and increase again during descent and landing. These pressurization changes sometimes cause ears to block painfully. Sucking, swallowing and yawning will all help to relieve pressure on the ear drum. If your child has trouble swallowing on his own, a glass of soda or water will help.
DR11 /80.225 F825
To keep an infant from feeling discomfort, give him a bottle right after take-off and again during the last 25 minutes of flight when the most rapid pressure changes occur. The swallowing will prevent pressure build-up in the inner ear. It is important to anticipate the change in pressurization because once the pressure builds up and a baby starts to cry from pain, he will rarely take a bottle. If he refuses the bottle, you must simply give love and affection and wait until his ears adjust themselves to the change in altitude and pressure.
A cold or blocked sinuses can make it difficult for the ears to adjust to pressure changes. If your child has a bad cold, postpone your flight if possible. If you must travel that day, consult a doctor before you fly.
Stomach upsets can be caused by many things such as fatigue, over-heating, excitement, and certain combinations of food and juice as well as the aircraft’s motion. You can avoid or relieve nausea in the following ways:
•	Feed your child lightly, avoiding rich food and sweets.
•	Give your child either milk or orange juice if you wish—but avoid giving him both to drink. The acid in the juice tends to curdle the milk—especially
in turbulence.
•	Eggs and orange juice are another combination which small children do not tolerate well in turbulence.
•	Monitor your child’s body temperature. An elevated body temperature can cause nausea as well as be a symptom of nausea. Remember that on night flights the cabin temperature tends to warm up as soon as the sun rises and your child may become overheated before you realize it. If your child feels too warm, immediately remove some of his clothing or coverings.
•	If your child feels very hot, lower his body temperature by applying cold towels to his forehead and the back of his neck.
•	When your child feels cooler, give him some 7-UR This will help to settle his stomach. Do not give him any fruit juice, milk, or food until the nausea has passed.
able to sleep more easily.
You can avoid restlessness—your own and your child’s—by getting up from time to time and taking your child for a walk through the cabin when the Fasten Seat Belt sign is not on. The toys you bring with you will help to keep your child amused when he is awake. If your travel plans call for a very long flight making several stops, you
If vomiting occurs, follow the same procedure—lower the body temperature with cold towels and then give small sips of 7-UR Avoid juice, milk and food.
When making a long trip, sleep is more important than food for a small child. We do not recommend waking a child for a meal. (If the child is awakened from a deep sleep he probably won’t eat the meal anyway.) Your child can always have his tray later if he wakes up hungry.
Coping with a Crying Child
Remember that an airplane is a strange, new environment for a small child. All the sights, sounds and people can fascinate some children and frighten others. Your child will need lots of love and reassurance to feel secure. He may want to be held and cuddled more than usual and he will probably demand more of your attention—possibly at the top of his lungs! If you are rested when you start your trip you will be better prepared to cope with these demands. Often when all
Since the atmosphere on the airplane is very dry you should give your child lots of liquids. Cola drinks, coffee and tea all contain varying amounts of caffeine and may keep your child awake. You will probably want him to drink caffeine-free beverages at night so that he will be
should consider breaking your journey somewhere for a day or two. A stopover en route for some rest and exercise will make a very long trip easier for you and your child.
Prepare Your Child for the Flight
It is important to tell your child before the flight what he can expect and what will be expected of him during the flight. Some of the things you will want to tell your child are:
•	Where you are going.
•	How long it will take you to get there.
•	He may meet people who speak a different language or with a different accent than he is used to hearing.
•	He will have to remain seated most of the time on
the aircraft.
• He will have to wear a seat belt.
• He will be able to sleep a certain number of hours (depending on the length of the flight and the time of day).
•	He will be served food and beverages on the airplane.
•	Clear air turbulence is perfectly normal.
On the airplane a child’s behavior will often reflect his parent’s own feelings and fears.
If your child seems troubled by anything and you aren’t able to explain it or reassure him, ask a flight attendant for assistance.
else fails to calm an over-tired or restless child, a walk around the cabin and a change of scene is just the thing to distract him and stop his crying.
A Reminder
If you are travelling with a child under two years old, the reduced fare which you have paid for him is possible only because he will not occupy a passenger seat. If there are seats available in your class of service, we will try to leave a vacant seat beside you for your child.
IsThere Anything Else You Would Like to Know?
If you have any questions, don’t hesitate to ask any one of us at Pan Am. We will do our best to answer all your questions—or find the answers to them. We want the time you spend in Pan Am’s world to be a happy, memorable experience. Have a nice flight!
Credit
Maryann Spizzy, a San Francisco-based Flight Attendant has authored this informative booklet as a service to Pan Am and its passengers based on her years of experience.
Printed in U.S.A.