Pan Am
Dr. Ashok Kapoor Graduate School of Business Administration New York University
Originally from India, Dr. Kapoor is a professor at the Graduate School of Business Administration of New York University. He received his undergraduate education in India and the degrees of MBA and Ph.D. in Business Administration from the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.
Dr. Kapoor teaches graduate level courses in international marketing management and international business management. He has pioneered in the development of a course, on Asian Business Systems and Environment.
His research interests focus on the problems and prospects of foreign investments in developing countries with particular emphasis on Asia.
Dr. Kapoor has published extensively in the United States and overseas. Some of his books include INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS NEGOTIATIONS: A STUDY IN INDIA (New York University Press), FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN ASIA: A SURVEY OF PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS IN THE 1970’s (The Darwin Press, Princeton, New Jersey), and MANAGING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: A SURVEY OF TRAINING PRACTICES AND EMERGING TRENDS (The Darwin Press, Princeton, New Jersey).
“To do business in Asia, you must understand it.”
With these opening words, Dr. Kapoor introduces a 60-minute taped discussion of the many points of departure—some subtle, some overt—between U.S. and Asian ways of doing business.
Using a question-and-answer technique, Dr. Kapoor focuses on the reasons underlying the attitudes and approaches of Asian businessmen and government officials to questions of industrialization, business management, foreign investments and other important subjects. Countries covered are Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, the Philippines, Hong Kong, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, India, Pakistan and Ceylon.
Culture, family relationships, philosophies, western colonialism, ancient rivalries and traditions have all shaped eastern business thinking, attitudes and business practices. By understanding the reasons why things happen the way they do in Asia, the American businessman will enhance his skill in doing business profitably and effectively in that part of the world.
An accompanying folder offers information on key economic features and other information of interest to businessmen.
Businessman’s briefing on world markets:
ASIA
CONTENTS
Parti:
General Introduction
•	brief sketch of the races, religions and languages of Asia
•	the nature and effects of colonialism
•	the goals of recently-independent Asian countries
•	key economic features
•	dissimilarity of Japanese economy and reasons behind its growth
Part II:
The Role of Government
•	planned economic development—why
•	planned economic development—how
•	putting planned economy into effect
•	Asian governments’ attitudes toward businessmen
Part III
Foreign Investments
•	Asian need for managerial and technical skills
•	policies, practices and terms of investment likely to be approved by Asian governments
•	guidelines to avoiding frustrations and delays when negotiating with governments — —the importance of the role of the government
at all levels of business
—	influence of a particular office determined by the individual who occupies that office
—	informal explorations precede formal applications
—following the bureaucratic chain of command
—	developing lines of communication with government officials
—	avoiding embarrassing officials with display of technical expertise
—	appreciating the importance of precedents in making terms of investment
—	group decisions are the norm
—	“secret” negotiations seldom remain secret
—	in negotiating, ability to get along more important than technical skill
•	Japan as a competitor for American companies
Part IV
The Asian Firm
•	dealing with Asian firms
•	main features of management
•	joint ventures with Asian businessmen —how to select a partner
•	marketing in Asia—principal considerations
•	advertising and distribution
•	the industrial work force in Asia— labor unions
Part V
General Guidelines
•	ten general guidelines for doing business in Asia—
1.	learn to live with trial and error experiments of developing policies in newly-independent Asian countries
2.	develop ability to get along with host governments
3.	convince government officials of your good faith
4.	recognize restrictions on terms of investment and ownership
5.	anticipate and understand reasons for delays in dealing with governments and businesses
6.	develop a network of personal relationships with government, labor, suppliers and competitors
7.	appreciate the role of family relationships and loyalties as reflected in business practices and attitudes
8.	realize that behind superficial westernization are centuries of tradition
9.	be aware of Japanese competition
10. don’t d isregard or expect to change the fundamental differences between eastern
and western ways of thinking and doina business
How to order Send check or money order for $5.00 (payable to Pan American World Airways) for each cassette ordered. Michigan residents add 4% sales tax.
Where to order Cassettes may be ordered by mai I from: Pan Am, Box 5337, Detroit, Mich. 48211, or may be purchased from your nearest Pan Am office. Allow three weeks for mail delivery.
Pan Am
Businessman’s Briefing on World Markets
Please send________cassettes @ $5.00 each.*
Check or money order (payable to Pan American World Airways) $-----------enclosed.
NAME
COMPANY
ADDRESS
CITY
STATE
ZIP
Cassettes may be ordered by mail from: Pan Am, Box 5337, Detroit, Mich. 48211, or may be purchased from your nearest Pan Am office. Or, for your convenience, use the enclosed postage-paid, self-addressed envelope. Allow three weeks for mail delivery.
*Michigan residents add 4°/o sales tax.
3595