WINGS TO MEXICO ... GUATEMALA
3 REELS IN COLOR — 16 MM SOUND —
We are off on an exciting adventure, a flight to Mexico and Guatemala. In this beautiful color film, we see Mexico through Mexican eyes. We stroll through lovely, semi-tropical Oaxaca, delve into Mexico’s past at Monte Alban, attend a colorful Tehuantepec fiesta, and through villages and towns approach Mexico City where ancient Aztec, colonial Spanish and modern civilization are blended. Here we visit national shrines, spend a lazy day at the famed floating gardens of Xochimilco, view a real bull fight, and top off our stay with a magnificent charreada, an exhibition of daring

Mexican horsemanship, as an adios to a glorious land. Our plane flies on to Guatemala, over thick jungle hiding ancient Maya cities, cradles of America’s earliest civilization. We land at spotless Guatemala City, the capital, where every street leads to a towering mountain. We shop for exquisite hand-woven textiles, mingle with Guatemaltecos and bronzed Indians, and then climb into the mountains to visit Spanish colonial Antigua, and to the shores of Lake Atitlan. Highlight of our journey to the clouds is our visit to Chichicas-tenango, where we see life as it has been lived for centuries. We see a religious festival and watch the Indians through a cloud of incense as we actually hear them chant and worship both Christian saints and pagan idols.
Easily accessible by Flying Clippers, Mexico and Guatemala offer uncounted attractions, hard to match anywhere in the world. In these friendly, neighboring countries, you can see mysterious pyramids and prehistoric ruins that rival Egypt’s best . . . grandiose mountain scenery comparable to Switzerland’s . . . architecture analogous to Spain’s . . . and customs and folkways as quaint and interesting as those you’d find in China or India,
and sun bathers.
"WINGS TO CUBA ...THE CARIBBEAN’
In a sleek Clipper our first stop is San Juan, Puerto Rico, with its mingled atmosphere of old Spain and modern America. On St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands, we visit notorious Bluebeard’s Tower — blood-thirsty Bluebeard of the numerous wives — and shop for dutyfree luxuries from many lands. Next is Trinidad, a British possession. In the streets of Port of Spain, we mingle with people of many races and religions, and at evening join in a stirring session of syncopated music and ritual dances. In Jamaica, English as Queen Victoria, we stroll through exquisite Botanical Gardens. Then, through dense jungle country, we motor
Charlie says, “For an unforgettable vacation these old haunts of the sea rovers and isles of enchantment are just the thing.”
to the North Shore on crystal cleai Montego Bay, winter haven of the international smart set. At last, Havana, Cuba, the Playground of the Caribbean. We whisk along the magnificent seawall drive, the Malecon, past de luxe hotels, down the elegant, shaded Prado to the President’s Palace and marble-hailed Capitol, visit El Morro and the ''old city” with its maze of narrow streets and curious customs. For fine surf and sun bathing, we relax on Cuba’s sweeping white sand beaches. And then, last but not least, enjoy the exhilaration of Havana’s night life — a fitting climax to an enthralling and entertaining film.
WINGS TO IRELAND
3 REELS IN COLOR — 16 MM SOUND —
The Emerald Isle, as seen by a typical American family on a two weeks Clipper vacation, is the subject of Pan American World Airways’ new documentary-type travelogue.
The "Dillons” travel by air from the United States and visit the Cliffs of Mohr and Connemara; the northwest, the Golden Vale of Tipperary, and the blue Lakes of Killarney; the limestone plains of the Curragh and the beautiful mountain resorts of Ireland.
You will see through the eyes of the Dillons the city of Cork on the lovely Lee, ride to an actual hunt with the Tipperary Hounds, and spend a long weekend in Dublin and the suburbs. The great stud farms, horse-racing, hurling, Irish dances and a Gaelic Feis competition, backed by direct sound taken on location, highlights this new Pan American World Airways travel film of Ireland — the spiritual home of twenty million Americans.
Copyright 1948, Pan American Airways, Inc.