Alaska — the virile, lusty Alaska of Jack London’s day was reached by lugger and dog team in a journey of weeks. Now the traveler flies from Seattle in a day. . . . Alaska has always been popular with vacationers, but for many it was out of the question because of the time required to get there. With air service even so brief a visit as a weekend is possible.
Alaska is calling — the unspoiled land where the frontiers of civilization hark to the “Call of the Wild.”
Surrounded by unequalled scenic grandeur, Matanuska Valley is one of Alaska's highly productive farming regions.
Alaska is a veritable hunter's Paradise, where wild sheep and goats, bears, fox and other game abound— a land where sportsmen can revel in the satisfaction of varied and bountiful fishing. Skiing and other winter sports add to its attractiveness.
The mature student of geology, folklore or Indian history, will find much of interest here; the seeker of relaxation or sport will be intrigued by the variey of attractions offered; and the comfort and speed of travel by air to this wonderful, newly-to-be-explored region commend it to everyone’s consideration. Whether one contemplates visiting Alaska or not, this film combines twenty-five minutes of pleasure with a wealth of interesting facts about this little known country.
Rio—city of sun, sea and samba
R
LYING around Latin-America in a Pan American Clipper, manned by expert, highly-trained personnel, is an experience interesting beyond description. Clippers leave from any one of seven Pan American gateways — Los Angeles, New York, Houston, Corpus Christi, Brownsville, New Orleans, or Miami. In the film, the flight starts at Miami, going direct to Nassau (Bahamas); from New Orleans through Central America to the Panama Canal; down the west coast of South America to Santiago, Chile, over the Andes to Buenos Aires, north to Trinidad, Port of Spain, and across the Caribbean, home.
A few interesting highlights of the trip are the Bahamas with their sumptuous modern hotels and many sports — golf, sail-boating, water-skiing and fishing (for participants and spectators alike) — the Canal Zone with its famous locks (engineering wonders of the world), and Lima, Peru, home of the famed Inca tribes and location of the four-hundred-year-old University of Lima.
Pas Americas World Airways	Pas Amerlcas World Airways
fl/ieáetifó

There is much of thrilling interest in the historical, geographical and sociological aspects presented by this pictorial visit to our Latin-American neighbors. Old Spanish churches against a background of the most modern utilitarian architecture, new and modern industries as contrasted to the activities of the primitive races — the Incas of Peru and the Bushmen of Dutch Guiana — the lush, tropical climate and exotic products, so novel and interesting to the North American visitor. This forty-minute film is packed with interest and education.
6 Color, Sound Movies
'WEEKEND IN BERMUDA"
To many people, weekending in Bermuda has become a habit. En route we view from the air the imposing panorama of New York, and fly over a fairyland of cloud formations to the colorful island of blue skies and coral seas — Bermuda.
This beautiful, all-color picture shows some of the myriad attractions of this nearby resort; swimming, yachting, golfing, aquaplaning, dancing, bicycling, and shopping.
6 Color, Sound Movies
in conjunction with
Clipper Charlie
the PAA Spirit of Travel
“The Lure of Latin America”, quotes our inimitable Charley, “becomes well nigh irresistible after seeing this colorful film.”
He's been everywhere, seen everything and knows all there is to know about travel.
Wings to IRELAND
Wings to ALASKA
Wings over LATIN AMERICA
Weekend in BERMUDA
Wings to CUBA and the CARRIBEAN
Wings to MEXICO and GUATEMALA
♦Trademark of Pan American Airways, Inc.
When it's winter in the U.S.A. it’s summer in Argentina and Uruguay!