yoil'll ^tuiuel in GomlcMil Imi Pan American. GUfip&i
Down the sunny skyways to happy days, you'll fly by Pan American—the perfect beginning for your Caribbean Vacation.
High above the turquoise sea, you'll relax in the comfort of the sun-filled cabin of your Clipper. There's a holiday mood you can't fail to catch. With happy vacationers like yourself around you, the pleasant time you spend in flight passes almost too quickly. In a few fleeting hours you're there. Flying by Clipper your travel time is cut to a minimum—nearly all your Caribbean Vacation is spent in the Caribbean Islands—not en route!
And important too, you're traveling with the world's leading overseas airline. "The System of the Flying Clippers" circles the globe, flies to all 6 of the earth's habitable continents—83 countries and colonies.
Air transportation by Pan American Clipper is part of your Brownell Caribbean Vacation—double assurance to the success of your holiday.
You'll enjoy friendly service and comfort all the way when you fly Pan American.
RESPONSIBILITY. Brownell Travel Bureau, Inc. acts as agents for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and exercises every care possible. However, we accept no responsibility in connection with the management, operation or service of any airplane, train, steamer, hotel or automobile, or any other conveyance or accommodation which is used in carrying out these tours, nor are we responsible for delay, accident or loss of personal property or personal injury or death or for additional expense due to war, storm, floods, epidemics, disruption of advertised schedules or other causes beyond our control and any such expenses would have to be borne by passengers. We also reserve the right to make such alterations in the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or en route. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar. Fares are subject to change without notice.
Delicious meals, prepared by expert chefs, are served to you at no extra charge.
ANOTHER BROWNELL TOUR
"Sixty-Four Years of International Travel Service."
The Brownell organization has grown into a world wide travel service. With its own representatives in every corner of the globe, personal attention is still the Brownell specialty.
Here's What Your
GGAibLecLn
FARES INCLUDE
1.	First class air ticket from Miami (or New York) throughout itinerary returning to Miami (or New York).
2.	Transfers by our representative at each city including two pieces (66 pounds) of baggage. Personalized
' service.	,
3.	Sharing double room (twin beds) with private bath at all hotels. (Rate for single room on request.)
4.	-‘Services of your personal guide and private automobile for all sightseeing tours.
Breakfast and dinner throughout. ^	V, >X[
NOT INCLUDED IN THE RATE OF THE TOUR:
Beverages and liquors, lunches, laundry, tips, landing tax of $1.80 at Jamaica, tourist card ($1.00) on arrival in Haiti.
\
V
DOCUMENTS:
Carry with you proof of U. S. citizenship such as birth certificate or old passport or voter's certificate or discharge from armed services.
j
SMALLPOX:
Have in your possession a medical certificate that you have been vaccinated against smallpox not over three years ago. No other inoculations are necessary.
OPTIONS:
Variations from these itineraries are easily made according to the personal preference of the traveler. At little extra cost stopovers are available at Havana or the Dominican Republic.
AN "AIR-SEA" CARIBBEAN CRUISE:
Also available are Air-Sea Caribbean Cruises which take you part way by ocean steamship and part way by Pan American Clipper. Prices are quoted on request.
Cc7f/66ea/7
f/acafio/rs
by BROWNELL
WITH AIR TRANSPORTATION BY
Pan American World Airways
(^/fe System of fhe^S/yiny C^/ippers
60
U/(j
For information and reservations, consult