FIRST IN LATIN AMERICA
FIRST ACROSS THE PACIFIC
' *
1927 P°n AmeriGan/s first airplane, the Fokker F-VII, flew the airline's
*	inaugural flight from Key West to Havana with mail on October 28.
1928
A Fokker F-10 stands near Miami's;.. first international terminal on 36th Street.
1QS4 First in Latin'America, the Sikorsky, S-42 was the famous survey Clipper in the Caribbean and on many other Pan American routes.
I QOO Airline's first amphibian was the Sikorsky ° S-38, flown to Panama by Lindbergh.
1935 The "China Clipper," a Martin M-130, was first commercial plane to span the Pacific, San Francisco to Manila in 59 hours, 47 minutes.

1956
The DC-7C is the last of the piston engined Clippers. Next come the jets.
1954
Super-7 Clippers went into world-wide service. Their speed was 350 mph.
rmÆm
1952
First of PAA's Super-6 Clippers, the DC-6B, set new standards of service.
1949
Pan American's first double-decked Clipper was the famous Boeing B-377.
1 aja The Convair CV-240 was speedy and ¡dec,| for . Caribbean island service.
Faith, Progress Mark 30 Years of Pan American Pioneering
MODERN civilization in the broad sense came to Latin America on caravels during the Golden Age of Explorers — Columbus, Cortez, Pizarro and their ilk -— but it really took the air age to unlock the rich storehouse that daring had discovered.
A popular and colorful catch-phrase has it that quite a few Latin American lands turned, in transportation, directly from the burro to the airplane. Unlike many catch-phrases, this one is exactly true.
In many places in Latin America even today, oxcarts draw up on airfields to unload their burdens directly into the cargo compartments of winged wagons.
All over the southern half of this hemisphere, airplanes are providing a safe and dependable form of transportation where virtually no other forms exist. They are serving as farm trucks, ambulances, school buses, furniture vans and mine wagons, among other things.
And it was a United States flag airline, Pan American World Airways, that did much of the pioneering to unlock a continent, establish a new concept of the role of aviation in world commerce, and give the United States one of the world’s greatest international air carriers.
The story of Pan American is a story of high adventure, daring, pioneering, faith, and progress compounded sometimes by sheer genius and again by homely improvisation.
„ In the history of international aviation, the,-, broad-winged Clippers of Pan American stand as Twentieth Century versions of the Conestoga wagons with which America’s pioneers pushed across the wild, unmapped plains of the West and opened up a whole continent.
i Much of the Pan American story has been written in Latin America, where it was born on October ^8, 1927, and where it flexed its fledgling wings qefore going on to conquer the Pacific in 1935, the Atlantic in 1939, and finally, «1,1947, to become the world’s first round-the-world airline.
From a humble beginning with a 110-mile route between Key West, Florida, and Havana, Cuba, Pan American System now flies to 82 lands all over the world — 34 in Latin America alone.
Its original seven employes have grown to more than 22,000.
In the early days, Latin America was a gigantic problem that challenged the vision, daring and pioneering of Juan Terry Trippe, who turned his back on a staid banking career to become Pan American’s first and only president, and the men he gathered around him.
The combination of rugged terrain cut with mountains, valleys and tangled jungles in many Latin countries, vast distances, especially in South America, and sparsely settled interiors had hampered Latin America’s communications over the centuries. The airplane offered the first solution to the problem that had daunted everything but sure-footed burros and mountain goats.
For example, Colombia’s capital, Bogota, and its great Caribbean seaport, Barranquilla, are some 450 miles apart. Planes shuttle regularly between the two cities and across jungles in less than two hours.
But the most practical overland route from Barranquilla to Bogota requires a 535-mile voyage up the Magdalena River to Puerto Salgar, then a transfer to a train for a final 123-mile leg of the journey. It can take from a week to a month.
Before the air age, most Latin American capitals were weeks away from the United States, and even each other, via slow steamer service. In many cases, Europe actually was closer to South America than was the United States. A resident of Caracas had to travel to New York to catch a ship for Rio de Janeiro.
Today, most major cities in Latin America are less than a dawn-to-dusk PAA Clipper flight from the United States, and the farthest of them is less than 24 hours away.
This change did not come easily. Pan American’s air pioneers shed their full quota of blood and sweat and tears M- and then some.
For 15 years prior to World War II, PAA acted on its own much as Department of the
through Central America to Panama. The original route to Cuba was pushed on to Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
From there, Clippers began flying down through the Lesser Antilles to the continent of South America, and finally all the way down to Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires. Pan American’s affiliate, Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra) began flying down the west coast of South America and across the soaring Andes to Buenos Aires.
Many of the survey flights mapping the new routes for the pioneer U.S. flag international air-
line during the world - famous Gen. Charles A.
During this sion in Latin was given routes in
1930’s were made by the transatlantic solo flier, Lindbergh. * same period of expan-America, Pan American and began operating air Alaska, beginning in The Alaskan routes were
ANOTHER FIRST FOR PAN AMERICAN—This great Boeing 707 jet is the prototype of the American-built jetliners Pan American will be first to fly when they are delivered late next year. Douglas DC-8 jetliners will follow in a short time.
1 0/1H Round the S world serv-
i c e w a s first inaugurated with this Constellation-type Clipper by , Pan Am Airways.
blazing air trails across previously impassable jungles and once-indomitable mountains.
Landing rights had to be negotiated directly with foreign governments. PAA men had to fight the efforts and influence of European air powers who had gotten the jump on United States interests and already established their operations in Latin America.
Permission had to be obtained > from Latin American governments to establish airports, and then sweating Pan American engineers and crews had to carve them by hand out of jungles and mountain-rimmed plateaus. Pan American had to set up its own communications and weather report systems^ *
PAA engineers helped design planes specifically for the long overwater hops, the jungle airports and other peculiar problems faced in international operations. New techniques had to be developed and personnel trained for overwater flying and ocean navigation.
In 1928, Pan American’s first full year of operation, it had only 252 miles of routes, compared with the 8,520 miles operated by European-controlled companies in South America.
But within three years, Pan American had extended the Latin American transport system of the United States to 24,500 miles of routes, compared with approximately 9,000 miles of routes for the European-controlled companies.
Clippers blazed air trails through Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean. The original base at Key West was moved to Miami. A second route was opened to Nassau. A new service was inaugurated from Texas, first to Mexico, then on
linked to the U.S. West Coast by Clippers in 1940, and in 1944 the Alaskan operations became part of the present Pacific-Alaska Division.
Year after year through the 1930’s and early 1940’s, new cities were linked into the Pan American network. A steady stream of bigger, faster planes followed the 10-passenger, 85-mile-an-hour Fokkers with which PAA inaugurated its Key West-Havana service.
Following Key West and Miami, PAA gateways to Latin America were established in Brownsville, Texas, in 1929; New Orleans in 1943 ; New York and Houston in 1946; Los Angeles in 1951, and San Francisco in 1955.
PAA was the first to operate a permanent international air service, first to operate regular foreign airmail service, to utilize radio in air transport, to develop an airways traffic control system, to develop and use instrument flying techniques, to; develop a complete aviation weather service, to develop and operate four-engine flying boats, operate four-engine landplanes, operate low-cost tourist type air service, and many others.
One of its most significant achievements was to forge the longest nonstop overwater flight regularly operated anywhere in the world when it opened-the 600-mile route between Kingston, Jamaica, and the Panama Canal Zone on December 2,1930.
This Caribbean basin was the laboratory where Pan American learned the skills in ocean navigation and overwater flying that enabled its masters of ocean flying to go on to conquer the vast reaches of the Pacific and Atlantic.
Pan American’s initial period of vast growth
and expansion came to an end with the rain of Japanese bombs on Pearl Harbor on that sunny Sunday morning in December, 1941.
Thereupon began a new chapter in its proud and adventurous history.
When World War II broke out, PAA put its planes, personnel and know-how at the service of the government. One task assigned PAA in the war effort was to establish and operate the 11,500-mile “Cannonball” run of the Africa-Orient service from Miami to India. War supplies and important personnel flew out; the wounded, returning combat veterans and prisoners of war flew back.
Pan American also ferried more, than 1,100 bombers by way of the South Atlantic to our allies in Europe, under a special service organized as Pan American Ferries, Inc.
When the Japs cut the Burma road, PAA personnel flew men and supplies “over the hump” of the Himalayas from India to provide a lifeline to China.
It established aerial navigation and engineering schools and trained 5,000 British and allied fliers.
It took part in the Berlin Airlift that kept the German capital alive when the Soviets clamped their blockade on the city. It organized a 6,700-mile Pacific Airlift during the Korean emergency.
It operated and maintained the Guided Missiles Range at Cape Canaveral, Florida, for the Department of Defense.
Already flying the Atlantic and Pacific, Pan American reached the full circle of its aspiration when on June 17.1947. it linked up its eastern and western routes and became the first airline to fly completely around the world.
Over the years, Pan American has helped organize and invested in 12 national airlines in 11 Latin American countries. It still has a minority interest in 10 of these affiliates.
In addition, Pan American’s aviation know-how and experience has been called to the aid of aviation in other parts of the world. Outstanding technical assistance programs were set up by PAA in cooperation with the U.S. government’s International Cooperation Administration to help expand and develop the air transport systems of Turkey, Pakistan, Thailand and Afghanistan.
Today, with the jet age near at hand, Pan American again will register another first—first to put into service American-built jetliners. The airline has purchased 48 of these great planes, the first of which will be delivered late in 1958.
Thanks largely to the new fields—geographic and economic—opened by the air transport industry, United States trade has been greatly enhanced, particularly in Latin America.
Geographically, Juan Trippe’s dreams have been largely realized.
His next and perhaps most important objective is to bring the cost of air transportation within the reach of the average man. By utilizing larger aircraft carrying more, passengers per plane, he has steadily reduced the price of Clipper tickets, year after year until air travel is available to everyone.
When the day comes that the new Pan American airliner is fully a mass transportation medium, a new era will have dawned, with the	.	«
easy international exchange of 1939BoemJ j goods and peoples having a	was ' r
lasting effect on peace and prosperity around the world.
Curtiss Commandos, as cargo Clippers
the C-46, served n Latin America.
IJnip times were greatly reduced when the Constellations were put in serviced
*■ rk /iff The famous Douglas DC-4 was the first land plané in service across Atlantic.
1940
First non-stop flight across Caribbean was made by the Boeing 307 in 1940.
314 s t
Clipper to inaugurate regular service across the Atlantic. It was the last of flying boats.
I QOQ A famous plane used by Pan American X 7ä7 was porcj tri-motor "Tin Goose,"

1QQ1 World's first four-engine commercial seaplane,,$-40, first named "Clipper."
1 qq/: Speediest of the Sikorsky Clippers was JLzftJO S-43, carried 14 passengers, 160 mph.
1 0^7 Workhorse of aviation, the venerable « DC-3, operated in LAD until 1955.
FIRST AROUND THE WORLD
FIRST ACROSS THE