
Viscount and Brittania). Turbo-propeller aircraft do have some speed advantage over piston-engine planes, but they are not jets; nor have they been found practical for long-range over-ocean flight.
Many of the larger pressurized piston-engine planes are capable of flying high enough to reach the so-called jet stream. In essence the jet stream is a huge circumpolar whirl of air, circling the globe from West to East. Its course varies from twenty-five to fifty thousand feet above Earth’s surface; and when its extreme velocity is at the lower level, planes flying within it may add as much as 200 miles per hour to their normal cruising speeds. Pan Am Clippers frequently take advantage of the jet stream on Eastbound flights over the Atlantic and Pacific. However, the speed benefit of the jet stream is not consistent enough to allow reflection in published schedules. For the jet stream is apt to be erratic, on rare occasions even reversing itself with East-to-West winds up to 50 MPH.
THIS IS HOW A PISTON ENGINE WORKS
Air enters the engine through an airscoop (A) on the outside of the plane. From the supercharger (B) a mixture of this air and fuel is forced under pressure into the cylinder, where it is further compressed. When the fuel is burned in the small space, the compressed air expands with great force, pushing the piston. Each time a piston is pushed it helps turn the crankshaft to which the propeller is attached. The propeller thrusts the air behind it, causing the plane to move through the air.
THIS IS A TURBO
ENGINE .
. . . such as will power Pan Am's giant Jet Clippers. It is a pure jet — has no propeller. Air flows into the inlet (A) above. The compressor, (B), forces the air under pressure into the combustor, (C), where fuel is sprayed into it and burned. The super-heated air expands under terrific pressure and escapes through one or more turbines (which operate the compressor) . . . then spurts out the exhaust nozzle (E). It is this spurting air that moves the jet plane through the air so swiftly and smoothly.
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
THIS IS HOW
A TURBO-COMPOUND ENGINE WORKS
THIS IS HOW A TURBO-PROP or "PROP-JET” ENGINE WORKS
Air flows into the inlets (A) and is compressed by the compressor (B). Fuel sprayed into the combustor (C) burns, heating the air to build even greater pressure. As this hot, expanding air rushes toward the exhaust, it turns one or more turbine wheels (D). These turbines turn the propeller and the compressor. While there is an exhaust of hot gases from this type of engine, it is still the propeller which is the means of propulsion.
This radically improved type of engine powers Pan Am’s giant Super-7 Clippers, the fastest over-ocean commercial transports — and other modern aircraft such as Lockheed’s new Starliner Constellation. It is essentially a standard piston-engine with an added “power recovery” system. Exhaust gases from the cylinders (A) drive turbines (B) which add their energy to the crankshaft which turns the propeller. This compounding of the two types of drive adds between 15 and 20% to the power of the piston-engine alone.
Printed in U. S. A.
Copyright 1957 Pan American World Airways, Inc. Clipper— Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. OlF.
/
' » ' >■’'■> vv'.h , s róvó fN\vivv>, ity w-wa/\y\;\ wwA/vvvv'A'
G O O U U O O > >	« I O.
O O O' O O O I > A)	O	O	O	O	O
O O O O.' O O I
)_ .0	O	O	O	O	o
0 .0 0 o 0-0
l/wow J
00 o o o o i :
o ; ; o	o «	v ' I ' I ' I ' I ' I ' I v v ' I ' I v I '
o O > , I < 1 \ / AVA. AV/ ’1 / \	\	‘ \ 1 u, o f > t » v ■ 0000 o 0 0 i t • o t> O 0 0 1 > o o o ol o o, t ■ o o , ( > T -, ». ■, ( • ( >. C • O, t •. (.• t - t - C o t ■ A • ot > Uc C , (1	t t ■ (. , t , <. / C - C , k , i , C } C t y L(