HOLY LAND AND ITALY
CRUISE 24 Choice	of air service-.	Tourist	First
Departures Nov. 1,	1953 through to March	17,	1954	$1003.	$1273.
Departures April 1	through to October 31,	1953	$1073.	$1374.
1st day NEW YORK—Leave by Pan American	World	Airways Clipper for
the start of an inspirational holiday in the Holy Land.
2nd day WINGS TO THE MIDDLE EAST, historic lands of the Bible.
3rd day	BEIRUT—Early morning arrival. Transfer to your hotel. Balance
of the day free for individual activities or for rest and relaxation in this important Lebanese city.
4th day	BEIRUT-BYBLOS—A morning sightseeing excursion by car will
include visits to principal points of interest in and around Beirut including the American University, Pigeon Rocks, UNESCO Building, Pine Forest, and the Museum. Thence via Mahr-el-Kalb, the strategic pass lined with ancient inscriptions, we visit Gebail (BYBLOS) historic city located 20 miles north of Beirut. Byblos, ancient Phoenician City, is the sight of archeological discoveries of unusual scope revealing a glorious past covering 6000 years. The seat of worship of Adonis, and the locale of Egyptian mythology, this merchant town of religious splendor now reveals remains of many temples, citadels and tombs.
5th day BAALBECK-DAMASCUS-Leave Beirut via Baidar Pass and Bekaa Valley for Baalbeck where we visit the Acropolis, the Temples of Bacchus, Venus and Jupiter. After lunch we proceed to Damascus and transfer to our hotel. In the late afternoon we enjoy the timelessness of Damascus, visiting the Bazaars, Ommayad Mosque, Saladin Tomb, House of Ananaias, St. Paul Gate and the Palace of El Azem. Overnight in Damascus.
6th day DAMASCUS-JERUSALEM-After breakfast we leave by car for a never-to-be-forgotten trip via Amman to Jerusalem during which we will experience the local color and the feeling of the Syrian Desert with its Bedouins and caravans. Arrive at Amman the Capital of Jordan for a refreshing luncheon. In the afternoon, continue past the Jordan River, the world-famous Dead Sea and through ancient Jericho, where remains of the Great Wall may still be seen. This city, once presented by Anthony to Cleopatra because of its magnificent gardens, is now a small village which has an interesting story to tell in its Byzantine and Crusader ruins. On the way to Jerusalem we pass the good Samaritan Inn.
7th day	JERUSALEM—the Holy Land. Here in the Hashemite Kingdom of
and	Jordan are the focal points of our holiday. Here we spend two
8th day	full days visiting the Holy City in the Arab section ... the Old
City, the Via Dolorosa (Way of the Cross), Mt. Calvary, the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, the Dome of the Rock, the Wailing Wall, the Garden of Gethsemane, the Mt. of Olives, the Place of the Ascension, Bethany, the Archeological Museum, the Garden Tomb, Bethlehem, Church of the Nativity, Milk Grotto, Shepherd’s Fields, Fields of Boas, the Tomb of Rachel and other biblical points.
9th day	JERUSALEM-BEIRUT—Morning free for shopping or other per-
sonal activities. After lunch, transfer to the airport and board Middle East Airlines plane for the short flight to Beirut.
10th day BEIRUT—At leisure. For those who desire it, a full day’s excursion can be arranged to Sidon and Tyre which date from 2750 B.C. Details and prices for this excursion will be quoted upon request.
11th day BEIRUT-R0ME—By Clipper to Rome where the ancient and the modern meet.
12th day ROME—the “Eternal City”, where the following sightseeing to consisting of four half day excursions, will enable you to visit
14th day the capital of the Roman Empire and of modern Italy; St. Peter’s Basilica, and the famous art collections of the Vatican; the Basilica of St. John in Lateran, and the Borghese and Pincio Villas; the Colosseum, St. Paul-Outside-the-Walls, the Catacombs, the ancient Appian Way; the Quirinale Palace, and many other outstanding historic buildings and sites.
15th day HOMEWARD BOUND-Leave by Clipper.
16th day NEW YORK-Due to arrive.
Passengers booked on Cruise 24 can extend their trip by remaining over in Europe, returning home via Paris or via the Riviera, Spain and Portugal Passengers booked on Cruise 25 can arrange to remain longer in Istanbul or London or extend their holiday by visiting all of Europe. The travel plans shown herein can be taken as shown or taken as extensions to other European Tours outlined in Folder No. 148 which is yours for the asking.
CRUISE 25 Choice of air service-.
Tourist First
WHAT THE RATES INCLUDE
AIR TRANSPORTATION—between New York and cities specified in the itineraries. Your choice of tourist or first-class service. (Tourist fares subject to Government approval)
LAND PORTION
All rates are based on two persons or more travelling together. Rates will be submitted on request for persons travelling alone.
HOTELS—Best available, basis twin-bedded rooms with private baths.
MEALS—Basis Continental breakfast, table d’hote luncheon and dinner at all hotels, except in London where breakfast only will be provided.
SIGHTSEEING—By motor, or other conveyance, according to local circumstances, including the services of an English speaking guide, admissions to museums and monuments.
TRANSFERS—Covering two average size suitcases between airports and hotels, or vice versa. Overnight bags or other baggage will be handled at owner’s expense.
GRATUITIES AND TAXES—To hotel servants except in Great Britain. Local or government taxes on hotel services or land transportation provided above.
THE RATES DO NOT INCLUDE
Transportation between travellers own home town and New York; hotel or other services in New York; meals at hotels not specified above; tips in London; handling of excess baggage and excess weight on planes—over 44 pounds on tourist and 66 pounds on first-class planes; visas and airport taxes wherever applicable; laundry, valet service, wine and liquor, and other expenses of a purely personal nature.
RESPONSIBILITY
All these Cruises will be carried out under the business management of Exprinter Travel Service, Inc., with offices and representatives throughout Europe.
The management acts as agent for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and other principals. While exercising every care possible, all tickets issued are subject to the terms and conditions under which such owners or contractors operate, for which neither the management nor any affiliated subsidiary company shall be or become liable or responsible in any way.
The management also reserves the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or en route, or to withdraw any tour. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar and will be lowered or raised in accordance with the values prevailing when you pay the final balance of your tour. Fares are subject to change without notice.
Pan American World Airways System is not be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passengers ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
Departures Nov. 1, 1953 through to March 17, 1954 $1063.	$1333.
Departures April 1 through to October 31, 1953	$1133.	$1434.
1st day HOLY LAND CRUISE—All arrangements for the first ten days to of Cruise 25 will be in accordance with the first ten days of
10th day Cruise 24 shown herein.
11th day BEIRUT-ISTANBUL—By Clipper to the ancient capital on the Bosporus.
12th day ISTANBUL—Full day trip of the old quarters and the fabulous bazaars. Visit famous St. Sophia and other ancient mosques, the Seraglio, the Golden Gate, the tombs of the Sultans, in a wonderful setting of Byzantine architecture. Ferry across the Bosporus to Scutari for a magnificent view of Istanbul, the harbor, and the Sea of Marmara.
13th day ISTANBUL-LONDON—By Clipper via Germany and Belgium.
14th day LONDON—Time free for individual activities such as shopping to and visits to points of interest in and around London. Leave on
15th day the 15th day by Clipper.
16th day NEW YORK —Due to arrive.
Printed in U.S.A.
Published by Exprinter Travel Service, Inc.
No. 146-2/53