INSPIRATION FOR A LIFETIME-
the Holy Ccmd
When you read about all the things you can do on your tour of the Middle East and the Holy Land, you’ll realize how rewarding your vacation will be ... truly an inspiration for a lifetime. You’ll be surprised when you learn how simple it is to go, and how inexpensive it is when you go by Clipper.
When you are in Jordan you’ll want to see the old city of Jerusalem, Bethlehem and follow the famous trails of Biblical times. You’ll be captivated by the beauty of the rolling Lebanese countryside. Her ancient cities will send your imagination racing back to the times of Alexander The Great. You’ll wander among Crusader Castles, Arab Mosques, Greco-Roman temples, and be fascinated by the strange prehistoric grottos.
You can visit Sidon and Tyre which were old important ports in Alexander the Great’s huge empire ... Byblos where some of the World’s most important archaeological discoveries have been made. You’ll marvel at the incredible scope of the Acropolis at Baalbek and see the timelessness of Damascus and her colorful bazaars. The mingling of old and new in the busy crossroad of Beirut itself.
By contrast you’ll enjoy the modern life of these same cities, the open air cafes, sunny beaches, the modern recreational facilities, and hotels and the delicious food.
ALL THIS AND EUROPE TOO
The time you save in flying will allow several exciting days in Europe too. Round out your trip with sightseeing in Rome or take an alternate route which gives you a chance to visit Istanbul, that magic mosaic on the Bosporus. Then fly to London with free time to enjoy the things you’ve always wanted to see in England.
It’s so easy by Clipper. You can leave most any day of the year and use either of the tours described in this folder or have a tour arranged to your special interests.
GO IN CLIPPER COMFORT TO SEE THE HOLY LAND
Your ocean crossing is by the world's most experienced airline—Pan American, a veteran of more than 40,000 transatlantic crossings, and you have your choice of two fine services. Lor speed and economy you can’t do better than the Rainbow, Pan American’s popular Clipper Tourist Service. You speed along comfortably at five miles a minute high above the weather in specially designed Super-6 Clippers manned by regular crewrs of the World’s Most Experienced Airline, and with delicious meals en route.
If cost isn’t a prime consideration, the giant double-decked "Strato” Clippers of Pan American’s famous President Service are for you. On these deluxe flights you enjoy magnificent meals by Maxim’s of Paris. Your seven course dinner includes complimentary cocktails, vintage wine, liqueurs. There’s a handsome overnight bag for each passenger and for each lady an orchid corsage and "My Grief”. All this plus the congenial club lounge on the lower deck.