and shorts or slacks for men; washable spectator dresses or sundresses for women; shirt-type blouses and shorts are quite acceptable for women, but no abbreviated dress is worn on public thoroughfares in Nassau. Bring swimsuits of course. Formal dress is necessary for winter season from December 15 through Easter.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING .
Nassau ■ • • There are many interesting places to see in Nassau. You can take sightseeing tours available locally or go around on your own. A trip to Nassau’s forts should be included. Fort Charlotte, with its eerie dungeons, about one mile west of Rawson Square, is the largest. It commands the western entrance to the harbor. Nassau’s streets are lined with historic old churches and beautiful colonial houses and there are some interesting public buildings on Bay Street.
Blackbeard’s Tower, now the ruin of an old watch tower, overlooks Tower Heights Village, 4 miles east of Nassau. Queen’s Staircase, Elizabeth Avenue, is a flight of 66 steps said to be hewn out of solid rock by hand, and it leads to Fort Fincastie; Nearby on Bennett’s Hill is the Water Tower, 126 feet high. Visitors- may go to the top by elevator, where they will get a wonderfu; view of the city and harbor. Paradise Beach, a 10-minute boat ride frdVn Prince George’s Wharf, is becoming one of the world’s most elegant and complete resor: communities. Visit the famous Sea Gardens, too.
Out Islands • • • Island settlements scattered throughout the Bahamian archipelago are rapidly emerging as miniature resorts n theii own right. There are set duled and chartered air services, as well as regular mail boats item Nassau to the Out Islands. Unless otherwise noted, all rates given are summer rates.
Abaco • Great ano. Little Abaco, northernmost of the Bahama Islands are growing in popularity with both sportsmen and tourists, At Gr.en Turtle Cay tve: Bluff House, $22 50 single, $40 double, American Plan (room and three meals); New Plymouth Inn, $20 single, $32 doable, .AP, Hopetown; Hometown Harbour Lodge, $19 single, $34 double, AP; White Sound Club, $15 single, $30 double, AP—$13.50 single, $22 double, Modified American Plan (room, breakfast and dinner). Elbow Cay Club, $18 single $32 double, AP. Marsh Harbour: Abaco Anglers Club (a house boat), $18 single, $36 double, AP. ’Viiker Cay: Walker Cay Club, $15 single, $30 double AP.
Andros • • The largest island of the Bahamas, 35 miles southwest i-f Nassau. Accommodations at Andros Town are: Andros Yacht Club, .il'i single, $24 double. AP; Lighthouse Club, $20 and $24 single, $30 —1 $26* double, AP.
ft lA.-ry islands ... A small chain of cays located northwest of Nassau. ( «) Frazers Hog Cay are: Berry Island Hotel, $10 single. $15 double, C ontinental Plan (room and breakfast); Berry Island Yacht Club, $10 single, $15 double, CP.
Birnini • • • Bimini, the nearest Bahamian island to the U.S. mainland, is regarded as “the gateway to the Bahamas” by the thousands of yachtsmen who make it their port of entry. Bimini is also famous for its big-game fishing, notably the annual tuna and marlin fishing.