cies, Stanley Toogood’s International Camera Store, Vanity Fair, Linen Shop, Carousel, Lightbourn’s Perfume and Camera Centre, Mayflower, Kelly’s Hardware, Caprice, Sun ’n Sea, Island Shop, English China House, Moseleys Camera Shops, John S. George, Coral Reef, Sir Francis Peek, Dorothy McNab, Melita, Francise, The Perfume Shop, Natcha’s, Belinda, Johnson Brothers’ Tortoise Shell Shop, and Amanda Furs. Branches of many of these shops are found in Nassau hotels.
SPECTATOR SPORTS Yachting regattas, local and international; championship-caliber golf and tennis tournaments; Bahamaswide fishing tournaments; horse racing every Tuesday and Friday in winter at Hobby Horse Hall; boxing and wrestling at Nassau Stadium; cricket; soccer; rugby football; basketball; softball; water-skiing exhibitions. Champion sports car racing during Bahamas Speed Weeks, usually in December.
SPORTS . . . Golf' and tennis at the Bahamas County Club; tennis at Racquet Club, Fmeiald Beach Hotel, Montagu Beach Hotel, British Colonial Hotel; badminton at the Nassau Stadium; spear-fishing; water-skiing; sailboats, bicycks, motor bikes and cars for hire.
Fishing ■ • ■ There are many different varieties of game fish in Bahamian waters, the principal fighting game fish being amberjack, barracuda, bonefish, bonito, dolphin, grouper, jack, kingfish, mackerel, mako, blue marlin, white marlin, permit, sailfish, shark, snapper, tarpon, •albaco.e tuna, Aliison tuna (the mighty bluefin tuna which run off Bimini and Cat Cay each May and June) knd the fighting wahoo, a game lisa which, pound for pound, puts up the scrappiest fight of any fish. The e are also crawfish and three different kinds of turtle. Throughout the '. ear, visitors may compete in fishing ttourna'meats.
TIME • ■ • Same as Eastern Standard Tt&Stei
TIFFING . . . Same as at home, about T^srd 15 per -cent.
TOURIST TAXES . • • $2 per person Div departure, children under 12 yrs, $L
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis, 56 cents for the first half mile and 17 cents each additional half mile for three persons or less; ¿9 cents each additional passenger; children under 10 half fare. Seven passenger taxis rent for about $5.00 per. hour; five-passenger taxis, about $4.00 per hour—half-price for each additional half hour. Picturesque hor.-" drawn carriages, 28 cents per mile or $2.80 per hour. Bicycles, 50 eery, per hour, $2 per day, $10 per week. Motor scooter, $5 per half daw $8 per day, $45 per week. Cars, $10-$ 14 per day, $50-$70 per week.
WATER ... Excellent, but if you prefer, hotels will serve yoiy bottled water.
WHAT TO BUY ••• Woolens, tweeds, silver, doeskin gloves'aticT doeskin fabric, English brushes, pipes, cameras and leather good.'. French perfumes, cosmetics and lingerie, liquor, china and porcelain tortoise-shell articles and, of course, the colorful native straw and sisal bags, hats, mats, coasters, and native bracelets and necklaces of dyed fish scales or shells.
'WHAT TO WEAR . . . Lightweight summer clothes. Sports shifts