LANGUAGE . . . English, of course, with British undertones, which some find fascinating.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING... Excellent, modern, speedy service.
LIQUOR . . . All brands are available and prices are much lower than at home. Scotch for example is about $3.50 a fifth, rum $1.50.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There's a new modern hospital and
MOTION PICTURES . . . The Savoy and the Capitol with first-run American pictures.
MUSIC. . . There’s a wealth of native music in the form of Bahamian folk songs and calypsos, heard nightly at the hotels, or in the night clubs and cabarets, or over the local radio station. Also, during the winter season, well-known guest artists perform.
NIGHT CLUBS & CABARÈ On Bay Street are Blackbeard’s Tavern, Dirty Dick’s Bar, Captain Kidd’s Inn, Junkanoo Club, and the BA MA. Native “over the hill” night spots include: The Cat and the Fiddle Club, The Conch Shell, The Confidential Chib, The Silver Slipper Club and Goombay Club.
PHOTOGRAPHY .. . Nassau is an excellent place to buy cameras and photo equipment. All types of film are available, also developing facilities. The quality of work is reasonably good. There is 24-hour service on developing. Selling Japanese, Swiss and German cameras and equipment are The Toogood’s International Camera Store, John Bull, Moseley’s Camera Shop and the Lightbourn Pharmacy.
RELIGION . . . Twenty-eight denominations are represented in Nassau.
RESTAURANTS . . . Nassau restaurants offer the best in European specialities, American and Bahamian foods. Try White Gates. The Buena Vista, Cumberland House, and Sun-And ... or go across to Huntington Hartford’s Paradise Island to The Martinique (French cuisine in a Parisian atmosphere), and to the Ocean Club Restaurant. Also worth trying: The Mermaid Restaurant. Grand Central, Ponciana, Riviera, The Golden Dragon (for Chinese and American dishes). Black-beard’s Tavern, Ba Ma Supper Club, The Big Bamboo, Howard Johnson’s Restaurant at the Nassau Beach Hotel, and Esquire Club Lounge. Black’s Candy Kitchen and the Shell Restaurant, two American-style soda fountains, also have restaurant service.
■; SHOPS AND STORES . . . Nassau has many wonderful shops where you can buy top quality merchandise from the world over. À N rssau prices are substantially lower than United States prices for such »items as, U.S. golf balls, china, Irish linen, British tweeds, French perfume, Scottish plaids and tartans and German and Japanese cameras.
Shops selling some or all of these items are: Nassau Shop, West of England Store, Barry's, Park Store, Stewart’s, Ambrosine, Mademoiselle, Sally and Vera’s, Treasure Traders, City Gift Shop, Moseleys (books), Chinese Emporium, Paris Shop, Vanite, City Pharmacy, John Bull, General Hardware, Island Woodcrafts, Cole-Thompson Pharma-