GOVERNMENT . . . The Government of the Bahamas is a system analogous to Great Britain (not a Crown Colony). Since 1718, the Governor has been appointed by the British Crown.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan Am Clipper, Nassau is only 50 minutes from Miami, and by Jet 2Vz hours flying time direct from New York. By ship, overnight from Miami, 2Vz days from New York.
ACCOMMODATIONS ■ • • Nassau has some of the most luxurious and beautiful hotels to be found anywhere. The largest are the British Colonial, Montagu Beach, Emerald Beach and The Nassau Beach. Others are Carlton House, Dolphin, May Fair, Olympia, Parliament, Prince George, Royal Elizabeth and Windsor Inn.
Apartment houses, private homes (with accommodations, for rent), seaside villas and magnificent Bahamian homes can also be rented. Residential clubs are the Bahamas Country Club, Balmoral Club, Gros-venor Club, Huntington Hartford Ocean Club on Paradise Island, Loft House Club, Nassau Racquet Club, h ew Moon Club (cottages), Nassau Harbour Club, Pilot House Club, and the Coral Harbour Chib. Guest houses include: Gleneagles Guest House, Harbour View Guest House, Nonpareil Guest House, Sun-And, and The Colonial House. The winter season is the most fashionable and formal time of the year in Nassau. Winter rates vary widely. Typical are the British Colonial Hotel, $27-$42 single, $40-$60 double, Modified American Plan (breakfast and dinner); Carlton House, $16-$20, $24-$30 double, MAP; Cable Beach Manor Apartments, rates by day or week; Emerald Beach, $30 and up single, $40 and up double, MAP; The Nassau Beach, $30 and up single, $40 and up double, MAP; Grosvenor Club, two-person suite $25, three-person suite $35, European Plan (room only); Pilot House Club, $19 and up single, $32-$42 double, MAP; Harbour View Guest House, $ 10-$E2 single, $14-$¡6 double, European Plan. Sapphire Waters, 1- to 3-bedroom apts., $25 to $60 daily. All these rates are reduced substantially for the low-cost summer season from April 15 to December 15.
AE . . . Nassau now has a permanent painting exhibition at the Nassau Art Gallery. Art exhibitions are also staged at charity benefits during the winter season. The Chelsea Pottery, famous in England, offers handmade articles made locally.
.....Bank of London and Montreal, Ltd., Bank of Nova
•f :.:>rba, Barclays Bank D.C.O., Canadian Bank of Commerce, Chase -Manhattan Bank; First National City Bank of New York, Lombard .Tank Caribbean Ltd. (a deposit bank), Mutual United Bank of the .Bahamas Ltd., People’s Penny Savings Bank Ltd., The Royal Bank of feCarada. Banking hours 9 to 1 on weekdays and 8:30 to 11 on Saturdays, ■k CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . .. New Year’s Day, Good Friday; Faster Monday; Whitmonday (day following Whitsunday); May 24, Commonwealth Day; the Queen’s Birthday (celebrated by Proclamation); August Bank Holiday (first Monday); October 12, Columbus Day; Christmas Day; December 26, Boxing Day.
; CLIMATE • • • The weather is warm and sunny and ideal for visiting any time of the year, although by tradition the social season is Christmas to Easter. Some winter evenings are cool.