CLUBS . . . (Residential) Bahamas Country Club; Balmoral Club; Pilot House Club; Racquet Club; Coral Harbour Club; New Moon Club; Nassau Harbour Club; Ocean Club (on Paradise Island) and Loft House Club. (Non-residential) Bahamian Club; Nassau Yacht Club; Royal Nassau Sailing Club, Lions and Rotary. For golf and tennis clubs, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Abbreviated sun-dresses, very short shorts, and bra and halter ensembles are not worn on the public streets. As in Britain all traffic moves on the left-hand side of the road. Also, when walking along the sidewalk, keep to the left.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . New Providence has 24-hour telephone and telegraph service to every part of the globe, with interference-free reception. Radio station ZNS broadcasts on 1540 kc/s, and provides service to visiting yachtsmen by regularly scheduled bulletins. Airmail rate to U.S., 8d. or 9<£ per half ounce.
CURRENCY. . . The Bahamian pound based on the British sterling system is currently worth about $2.80 U.S., but American and Canadian dollars are acceptable generally.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . No passports or visas are required, but you will need some proof of nationality. You may take in 200 cigarettes and 1 quart of liquor, unrestricted amounts of dollars, but not more than £20 in Bahamian, Bermudian, Jamaican or Bank of England notes.
DRUG STORES . . . Plentiful and modern, similar to those in the United States, but without soda fountains.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ...115 volts, 60 cycles, A.c. All plugs and electrical appliances are the same as standard United States equipment.
FAUNA .. . Raccoon on New Providence; wild hogs, wild horses, donkeys, cattle on some of the islands; the iguana on Andros; many birds, including the flamingo, considered the national bird on Inagua Island. For fish, see sports.
FLORA . . . Many varieties with never a time when some flowers are not in bloom. Peak blossom time is early summer with royal poin-ciana trees, Easter lilies, passion flowers. Poinsettias at Christmas time. Radiant hibiscus, oleander. Bougainvillaea and other exotic flowers.
FOOD . . . With the exception of vegetables and fish, most food is imported from other countries. Meat from the United States, Canada and Australia. Bahamian specialty dishes include turfle m soup and turtle pie, conch chowder, fish chowder, baked Nassau grouper with peas and rice, broiled native crawfish, or fillets of any of the famous Bahamian food fish, such as kingfish and dolphin. Be sure to try soursop ice cream and mango ice cream. Other native deserts include coconut pie, pudding and ice cream, and guava dull.
GAMBLING . . . During the winter season a Government-super-vised Casino operates at the Bahamian Club.