The Whole World’s Nearer by
hong Kong, Singapore. For with Pan Am Clippers cutting travel time to mere hours, you’ll be able to visit the land "Down Under” for the Olympics and have plenty of time for Hawaii en route, the South Seas, Japan and the Orient, too. In fact, if you wish, you can continue by connecting airlines to India or Japan, fly Pan Am to the Mid East, Europe and on home Round the World.
Clippers are such a wonderful way to travel! They’re so smooth, flying above the weather. So comfortable too, pressurized and air-conditioned. With congenial world travelers for your companions and efficient cabin attendants to serve you, you haven’t a care in the world. For you’re free of surface delays, annoyances and travel ritual calling for extra luggage, endless tipping. And on both deluxe President and Rainbow Clipper Tourist service, you enjoy delicious complimentary meals and practically everything else in travel comfort, including reading material, pillows and blankets, shaving and game kits . . . even bassinets you can reserve in advance — baby kits, too.
Portland, Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles Gateways permit you to leave by one, return by another. President Service . . . finest in luxury travel . . . features Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette Service, lounge seats that stretch to full bed length. Berths are available at a surcharge. You enjoy lower-deck lounge of Super "Strato” Clippers . . . superb, chef-planned meals, served with complimentary cocktails . . . bar service . . . hors d’oeuvres. Rainbow Service The finest in tourist service at no more than ordinary tourist fares. Foam-soft, reclining seat with adjustable foot rest . . . delicious complimentary meals . . . bar service . . . friendly, courteous cabin attendants.
Travel Now — Pay Later Pay 10% down and spread the balance over 20 monthly payments. Any PAA office or Travel Agent can arrange it for you on The World-Wide Plan — Go Now-Pay Later.
Why is Pan Am So Popular? Credit frequent schedules to all 6 continents, varied routings, choice of services and Pan Am’s experience, American know-how, superb food and service. First across the Pacific, Atlantic and Round the World, Pan Am’s made over 35,000 transpacific crossings. People prefer to travel with the leader, the U. S. flag carrier that flies 28% of all travel to and from the U. S. A.
Copyright 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Clipper, Sleeperette Trade-Marks, Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Your Clipper trip to the Olympic Games in Australia can be the starting point for the vacation you’ve dreamed about . . . in faraway places like Siam,
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
DR 856-5