Consult This Map For Fastest MayTo All Points In Latin America
What can be sent by”Air Express”?
Any article that will be carried by domestic railway express can be sent by Pan American Air Express to Mexico, the West Indies, Central and South America.
Orchids, plants, baby chicks, and other fragile articles travel constantly over the airways. Machinery parts, merchandise of all types, fashions, minerals, gold, precious stones and other articles are carried every day.
There is no article in foreign trade, with the single exception of heavy livestock, which Pan American has not carried.
Below is a partial list of products which have been dispatched air express in recent months. Each item represents a saving of time and money for both the shipper and consignee. A glance through this list will suggest ways in which you may profit by using the air express.
ARTICLES CARRIED AS AIR EXPRESS OVER PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS SYSTEM
Antitoxins Advertising Material Airplane Parts Alligators (Live)
Ash trays Automobile parts and accessories Baby Chicks Baseballs Baskets (Native) Bananas Bees (Queen) Belts (Leather) Batteries Bills of Lading Biscuit Samples Blueprints Books
Bottles (empty) Bows and Arrows Bridal Veil Brazil Nuts Bulbs
Bullion (Gold and silver) Cameras Candy Carbons Cargo Books Chicle Gum Cigarette Lighters Cigars Catalogs Clocks Clothing Cloth (Samples) Coffee
(Samples) Corn Meal
Currency Diamonds Dogs (Live) Dolls
Dope (Clear)
Dresses
Drugs
(Samples) Dental Supplies Electric Motor Electric Water Heater Electrotypes Engraving Cuts and Dies Feather Baits Films Gasoline Samples Glasses Gourds (Haitian) Hardware Supplies Hatching Eggs Hosiery Insects (Live) Jewelry Lamps Linen Literature Lizards (Stuffed) Lottery Tickets Mangoes Marine Motors Medicines Motors and Parts Magazines Milk
(Powdered) Mineral Samples
Molasses Samples Natural History Specimens Ore Samples Oxygen (in drums) Paddles (Wooden) Paints Passports Perfumes Photo Cells Photographs Photograph Supplies Phonograph Records Pipe Fittings Plaster Bust Pocketbooks (Leather) Printed Forms Projector (Movie) Propellers Pump (Bilge) Raincoats Razor Blades Rice Samples Rings (Gold) Rings
(Diamond) Religious Ornaments
Rubber Manhole Gasket Seals Serum Shawls (Spanish) Filters Fish (Live, Tropical)
Fishing rod, reel and spoons Flowers Sketches and Cartoons Soap
Souvenirs Squabs (Fresh dressed) Stationery Sugar Cane Fluff
Tableware
Tea Samples
Thread
Toys
Vaccine
Vegetables
X-Ray Films
Yeast
Silks
Silver Cup (Trophy) Shipping Tags Sisal
Snails (Live Coral)
Sodium
Phosphate Sponges Stamps Straw Hats Sulphate (Quinine) Tachometer Cable
Tennis Rackets Tiles
Umbrellas Valuable Papers Woods
(Samples)
X-Ray
Transformer
P/f \ ÆiïtEKICÆM
FÆÆ
ÆKRWFKYS SYSTEM
General Offices
122 East 42nd Street, New York City
44 Biscayne Blvd., Miami, Fla. 1101 Levee St., Brownsville, Texa AND ALL POINTS ON THE AIRWAYS
AIR EXPRESS
TO
LATIN AMERICA

<4i

— W
CONSULT
OUR NEAREST AGENT OR
PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS

..■..■mm'IIIIIIIIIIIIIIBB
MlilllllllllMJin'iiaii,
LEND WINGS TO YOUR FOREIGN TRADE
Speed!. ..Hours instead of days, days instead of costly weeks "in transit.” Rapid, dependable service to rush your products to important markets days ahead of your competitors. Fast schedules to speed your shipments to twenty-four countries, three times as fast. An organization geared up to give your important shipments preferred treatment, to insure delivery of your products in perfect condition and in a fraction of surface shipping time.
This, in a word, is what Pan American Air Express offers.
Operating on the same fast schedules that carry United States air mail to 31 countries and colonies of the West Indies, Central and South America— schedules that save two out of every three days required for surface transportation— international air express has swept away the barriers of time and distance for international commerce between the United States and the Latin American markets. The same organization that has made Pan American the outstanding air transport system of the world, which has carried one hundred and thirty thousand passengers forty million miles, carried two million pounds of mail and cargo with a 99.81% "on time” record, has made possible this international air express service for American shippers.
By slashing shipping time to one-third, air express enables you to cut unproductive foreign inventory to the vanishing point. "Goods in transit” means unproductive capital. Air express makes your capital work faster. In these days of hand-to-mouth buying, the firm that can make the quickest delivery gets the order. Preferential treatment accorded air express merchandise eliminates customs delays. Low rates represent but a fraction of the money saved, or the greater profits earned, by quick delivery.
Hundreds of American business houses, constant users of Pan American Air Express, have found that quick delivery avoids cancellations, boosts sales, satisfies customers. Where goods are ordered as needed, fast delivery brings repeat orders. Air express shipments of spare and replacement parts have prevented serious industrial delays. Shipping losses of perishable goods are reduced to a minimum. For goods with a time value, such as news films, advertising materials and sample merchandise, shipment by air express increases the value of the articles many fold.
Get your share of Latin American business. Join the growing list of progressive business houses that are profiting daily by the use of Pan American Air Express.
VIA PAN AMERICAN" MEANS 3 TIMES AS FAST