oleander follows wherever you go. Meet friendly people as you dine on sunny terraces overlooking the changing seascape. Perhaps you’ll all play tennis after lunch, plan a picnic for the next day.
Now you can bring back more than ever of the things for which the British are famed: tweeds and woolen goods by the yard, cashmere sweaters, wonderful leather goods, English china. And a not-to-be-overlooked gallon of liquor. There’s china, too, from other countries, and French perfumes in every scent imaginable. If you’re out of the U. S. for two days up to twelve, you may bring back $200 worth of goods and souvenirs — duty-free — allowable once a month — an extra $300 worth (for a total of $500) for twelve or more days — allowable once in six months.
your holiday playland
HOLIDAYS
ARE FUN — AND INEXPENSIVE
ff hich do you prefer — lazy days of giving yourself up to an unfailing sun, relaxing on coral sands by the bluest and clearest waters you’ve ever seen ... or the excite-nf new faces . . . gay parties . . . sports galore? Choose either . . . perhaps a mixture of both . . . and you’ll find Bermuda is the holiday land in tune with your spirits.
Pro or novice, they all say Bermuda golfing is beyond compare — and this side of Scotland the Mid-Ocean Club course rates with the four finest. Then for sun and surf there are dozens of bewitching coves whose gently sloping beaches rival the softness and whiteness of 8Hthe clouds overhead. For special sailing pleasure, cruise Bermuda waters . . . watch bright fish lurking deep down. All around the islands, there’s plenty to enjoy. Jaunt about in an open carriage, by white-roofed pink and blue cottages, cycle the winding roads for breathtaking vistas. The sweet scent of
Low-cost Bermuda vacations are easily arranged. One, for example, which gives you seven glorious days in Bermuda, includes round-trip Clipper transportation with hot meals and refreshments aloft, transfers between your hotel and Kindley Field, hotel accommodations, breakfast each day, all for only $117.00 plus tax. For full information and reservations, see your Travel Agent—or call your nearest Pan American office.
IT’S A SHORT STEP BY CLIPPER TO A LUXURIOUS ISLAND HOUDAY
Your Clipper trip to Bermuda is short in time, but long on pleasure. Enjoy delicious food, with a complimentary cocktail, served on high by a friendly stewardess. Watch a thrilling panorama outside your window. Browse through the latest magazines or catch a catnap in your reclining lounge chair. Then, in all too short a time, sight the sail-dotted harbors — the sun-kissed coral sands of Bermuda.
narrow
Copyright 1952 Pan American World Airways Inc.