near Barcelona at Candanchu (Huesca), the Guadarrama near Madrid, and Sierra Nevada, near Granada. There are good skiing, races and contests in all these winter centers. Fishing and hunting in Spain are among the best in Europe: mountain streams with trout, splendid salmon fishing (so much so, it is said, that 5,000 natives make their living fishing salmon, all with lines—no netting allowed in Spain). Sea fishing is good all along the coasts, with tuna taken from several centers. There’s good hunting in the mountains, for deer, chamois, wild boar, and splendid duck shooting along the Guadalquivir River, famous everywhere. There are pigeon shoots all over Spain, spring, summer and fall. Madrid and Barcelona have excellent 18-hole golf courses; tennis is played everywhere. Public bathing pools in all the big cities, wonderful surf bathing at San Sebastian and all along Spain’s extensive coast.
THEATERS . . . Madrid’s theaters and those all over the country start very late, by our standards, about 10:30 p.m. and sometimes even a half-hour later. Everything’s in Spanish, of course.
TIME . . . Noon in New York is 6 p.m. in Spain.
TIPPING . . . The standard tip of 5 pesetas is handed to the hotel attendant who opens your room, the doorman who gets a taxi, shoe-shine boy, hatcheck girl, theater usher, parking-lot and gas-station attendants. Luggage porters are tipped 5 pts. per bag. Room-service waiters, taxi drivers, barbers and beauticians are tipped 10% of their bills. Tour guides are tipped 15-25 pts. Waiters and bartenders are tipped 5% of the bill, which already includes service charges.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis are plentiful and very inexpensive. Everyone, visitors and residents alike, jumps into a taxi upon the slightest excuse, although city bus and streetcar services have improved. Intercity trains are also being modernized. Important changes for the better include the "Talgo,” smart Irun-Madrid, stainless-steel Diesel train, and also the electro-Diesel “TAF” trains, which run regular schedules between Madrid and the more important cities, such as Barcelona. Spain’s Iberia and Aviaco airlines are recommended for long cross-country trips. For shorter distances hired cars are easy to arrange and reasonable in price. Modern sightseeing busses cover the country on very w ll-organized tours. The concierge at your hotel can recohimend reliab t travel agents. Tour companies offer all-inclusive 2-week tours for $16a day.
WATER .	. 1 ne in Madrid and Barcelona. In small towns better
stick to bottled w ter. Best (natural) are Solares and Fournier.
WHAT TO BUY ...Jewelry and Toledo ware; Talavera pore lains; mantillas; linens, gloves, lace and leather goods of every k^ are superior; perfume is good, cheaper than French; and plenty of good pottery, glassware. Festival and Casa Bique are good shops for Spanish products. Women’s dresses made by the best Spanish couturiers are available in Madrid, Barcelona and San Sebastian at vSyq reasonable prices, from Balenciaga (called Elsa in Spain), Pedro Rodriguez, Asunción Bastida, Pertegaz, and others. Men’s suits custom-made at $60-$70 can be ordered in Barcelona at Rabat, and '! Dique Flotante, or in Madrid at González y García, Peñalver, Montero and