Iona, the Banco Condal has a direct telex to New York, thus permitting quick cashing of personal dollar checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . January 1 and 6; March 19, St. Joseph’s Day; Holy Thursday; Good Friday; Resurrection Monday; May 1, San José Day; Ascension; Corpus Christi and Whitmonday; June 24, St. John; June 29, SS. Peter and Paul; July 18, National Day; July 25, Santiago Day; August 15, Assumption; October 12, Columbus Day; November 1, All Saints Day; December 8, 25, 26; and in different localities many feast days, besides those big fairs, such as Barcelona’s famous verbenas on the eves of June 24 and 29, and patroness saint's day on September 24. There is Seville’s Holy Week and the popular Feria during the months of April and May; Pamplona’s Patron Saint Day, San Fermin, July 7; Valencia’s Patron Saint Day, San José, March 19, when the Fallas are celebrated; Madrid’s festival of San Isidro, May 15, very typical and gay, and San Sebastian’s, August 15, a festival starting on August 13 and lasting the whole week. Try to visit where you can on the big days.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes cost from 16 to 22 pesetas per pack. Spanish cigarettes are black, strong, inexpensive, as are American-type and Cuban-type cigars.
CLIMATE . . . Madrid has a 2,000-foot elevation and is fairly cold in the winter and hot in the summer, but its dry climate is a help. It receives the fresh breeze from the nearby Sierra de Guadarrama which, it is said, makes it the most healthful capital of Europe. Best months are May, June, September and October.
Barcelona, situated on the Mediterranean coast, offers «n ideal holiday climate. It is hot in the summer, mild in winter. Best seasons are spring, which starts as early as March, and autumn; winter does not start until November. Barcelona’s hottest months are July and August, but the beautiful nearby mountains and coast are an excellent and comforting refuge.
CLUBS , ¿;. Many exclusive, smart clubs in both cities. In Madrid, Real Club Puérta de Hierro and Club de Campo. In Barcelona there’s the Polo Club, Real Club de Golf el Prat, Real Club Nautico. For visits, contact the club secretary.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... Spaniards are not too punctual, sometimes a little late for appointments. Luncheon is late, aperkivo (cocktail hour) may run as late as 9 or 9.30, with dinner ser-'v. : from 10 p.m. on. Ladies do not wear mantillas in night clubs or restaurants or for casual occasions. They are worn in church, and to bullfights.
:: it COMMUNICATIONS-. . . Day rate for a 3-minute phone call to the.States is 724 peseti.., night rate is 543 pts. Cablegrams are 23.65 pts. per word. Air-net! postage to U.S. is 10 pesetas for letters, 8 foh cards.	•	■
’ChKkRENCY* . There are 100 centimos in one peseta, worth 60 pesetas to U.S. $1. Money can be changed at the airport, in hotels, travel agencies and banks.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CMIZENS. . . United States citizens need a