MEDICAL FACILITIES... English-speaking doctors and dentists are available in Madrid and Barcelona, with English-speaking staff in some of the better hospitals—consult your hotel clerk.
MOTION PICTURES... British, French and American are shown at almost all theaters in both Madrid and Barcelona, usually with Spanish sound tracks. Seats must be reserved for evening shows and Sunday matinees. Check programs locally.
MUSIC... The famous Spanish symphonic orchestras, the Sinfónica, Filarmónica and Nacional, as well as the Cuarteto de Música de Cámara and the Orquesta Sinfónica de Barcelona, give concerts all fall, winter and spring. San Sebastian has fine music each summer, especially during “Grand Week” in August as do Granada and Seville during their spring festivals. Barcelona’s winter opera season ranks very high, about third in all Europe. Concerts and chamber music at the Palacio de la Música Catalana, opera at Teatro del Liceo. Best choirboy singing in Spain is at Monasterio de Montserrat.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . In Madrid, try the Castellana Hilton’s Rendezvous Room. Dine and dance to good music; also Rex, Pasapoga, floor show, good music (closed during July and August); Casablanca, floor show, entertainment; Michel eta, Lido, Flamingo, El Biombo Chino, all with floor show, entertainment. For typical Spanish Andalusian-style dancing (flamenco) and decoration, try La Zambra and El Duende. Also good food, dancing at the Florida and the Pavilion, in the middle of Retiro Park. Club Riscal, summer roof garden, has good food (paella, the Spanish rice dish, is their specialty).
In Barcelona, some of the smartest places in summer are La Masia and Tres Molinos. For good music and floor shows without food try the Bolero, Emporium and Rio. There are many boites and bodegas for an evening of fun that costs very little.
PHOTOGRAPHY..,Color as well as black-and-white film is available. Also cameras. Other photo equipment is fairly expensive. There are Kodak shops in both Madrid and Barcelona, with good-quality developing taking 2 or 3 days.
RELIGION. . . Roman Catholicism is the state religion. Madrid has 3 Protestant churches, Barcelona, 2. Both cities have Jewish synagogues.
RESTAURANTS. .. Both Madrid and Barcelona have plenty of really good eating places. In fact, the cooking is genuinely good almost everywhere, with a variety that is bewildering. Delicacies fro" every part of Europe are superimposed on dozens of native dishe game and seafood.
Probably the most famous restaurants are Madrid’s Jockey Clu Commodore, Las Lanzas, Puerta de Moros and Horcher’s. Each is de luxe, exclusive gourmet’s delight, with a superlative cuisine and a fine setting. Best restaurants in Barcelona are: Reno, Milan, Finisterre, Petit Soley, La Masia and Glaciar. Near the waterfront and famous for seafood are Casa Costa and Caracoles. Both cities will serve you their own famous specialties along with dishes each province claims for its