many others. Made-to-order shoes cost between $16 and $23. Sherries and brandies are of course good buys.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . Spaniards are a well-dressed people and somewhat conservative in their attire, therefore ladies’ slacks are noi worn. Evening clothes are not necessary for tourists. Sports and beach-wear will be needed for seaside resorts; and bikinis are now accepted in internationally-minded resorts. Flat-heeled walking shoes should also be included if tourist haunts such as Toledo and the Escorial are to be visited. Lightweight suits for men for city wear, sports clothes elsewhere. It is customary to wear a jacket and tie in cities even in summer, though, strangely enough, hats are rarely seen either on men or women. When entering a church, however, women wear hats or cover their heads with mantillas.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING. . .
Madrid. . . Top on your list for sightseeing in Madrid will be the famous Prado National Museum and other museums mentioned under arts. Also, by all means visit University City. With one of the finest campuses of its type in Europe, it embraces all the arts and sciences. It was completely destroyed during the Civil War, and completely rebuilt since 1939. A stroll through the Retiro Park, with its beautiful gardens, statues, fountains and artificial lakes is well worth while.
Toledo. . . is a short drive from Madrid, the home of El Greco, and famous for its tempered steel as well as for its gold Damascene works. Visit the Cathedral, the Church of Santo 'Tomé, and the Jewish synagogue. A splendid view of the city may be had from the hill just beyond. El Escorial is famous for its monastery-palace, built by Phillip II, which houses the tombs of the kings of Spain as well as other great persons. Avila, the medieval walled city, is the home of the famous Spanish mystic, Santa Teresa. Segovia is famous for the castle known as the Alcázar and for the unsurpassed magnificence of its Roman aqueduct.
Barcelona, (1% million inhabitants), founded in the 2nd century B.c., lies within a hilly amphitheater facing the Mediterranean. Besides being the most cosmopolitan city in Spain and one of the most beautiful and historic seaports of the Mediterr nean, Barcelona is rich in fine churches, lovely fountains, monument , religious ana civic buildings, and has a charming old Gothic Quarti .
Be sure to visit the Gothic Cathedral, built Imest directly over the site of a Roman temple to Jupiter. Several g ¿at museums are in mountainous Montjuich Park, famous for its fountains and view of 'fhe city. Here, too, is Pueblo Español, in which each building represents the architecture of a different province. You can watch Spanish 'handicrafts in the making, and buy the results. A replica of Columbus’s Santa Maria is in the harbor to which he returned in triumph in 1493. In the Salon del Tinell on Plaza del Rey in the Gothic Quarter, Isabel and Ferdinand formally welcomed Columbus, and here the first American Indian was baptized. See the superb fountain of Montjuich; usually illuminated from 9-11 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.