passport but no visa for visits up to 6 months. One half-bottle of liquor, one bottle of wine and about 1 carton of cigarettes for personal use may be brought in duty free. You may take 50,000 pesetas into and up to 3,000 pesetas out of Spain. Purchases up to 25,000 pesetas may be taken out of the country by visitors without permit, but show receipts for purchases to Customs. Air departure tax 85$!.
DRUGSTORES ... A few American pharmaceuticals, but mostly Spanish or European drug items.
ELECTRIC CURRENT... 110 volts d.c. or 125 volts A.C., 50 cycles. Plug adapters can be bought locally.
FOOD . . . Spanish food is hearty, and you’ll find the specialties, especially seafood, interesting. You need never fear eating any of the great variety of fruits: melons, grapes, figs, oranges, and many kinds you don’t get commonly at home, all very fine. Watch for the tiny wild strawberries, the splendid seafood. Try the local specialties in the different parts of the country as you go ?bout the countryside. There are delicate little cakes made with fruits and nuts. Spanish sweets are famous (particularly the excellent turrones) and suggest their Moorish ancestry. Pasteurized milk is available in Madrid and Barcelona, but not always in the smaller places where it should be boiled for safety.
GAMBLING. . . Madrid has a fine race course, as does San Sebastian, where there is good horse racing "over the Lasarte course each July, August, September. Greyhound racing in Madrid and Barcelona. Lotteries. There are no casinos for gambling, but betting on football games in winter and big betting on the jai alai games, but you had best just watch it, unless you know something about it. It’s faster than lightning, and twice as exciting.
LANGUAGE . . . The official language is Spanish, but in Barcelona they speak Catalan, and other areas have their own dialects. English is understood in large cities and tourist centers only.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Fine 1- or 2-day laundry service almost anywhere. Service is good and quick in the larger hotels. Prices are reasonable. Dry cleaning generally ta>es 1 or 2 days at hotels.
LIQUOR. . . You can drink sherry all through Spain, varying the type as often as you change cities. As with the food, you might well enjoy one of the dozens of wines you find featured in its native province. Spain has a great variety of wines. The reo« (vino tinto) are truly outstanding; the whites (vino bianco) range bom fair tc fine. Prices I are so low you can experiment widely until you find those you want ^o stick to. Those of Cataluña are delicious, always popular with Americans. There are many local liqueurs, such as anís, and several Snanis brandies, usually a little grapier than : he .same' French grads, but very good. And they have the additional charm oibhemg cheap, as are a i Spanish distilled liquors compared witn Seo’ b and other foreign beverages. Try local brandy and soda, or loca, gin and tonic Popular American drinks are available hm hotels and street bars, According to the place, prices vary from 15	25. .pesetas, always more for
Scotch. Hotel bars are open usually ;ntil 11 p.m., other bars until midnight. Minimum legal age for drin irs is 18.