own: Valencia’s paella—yellow rice, with chicken, seafood, lobster or snails; zarzuela de mariscos (a wonderful shellfish dish) and butifarra a la Catalana—an excellent Spanish sausage—come from Barcelona. The Bilboa and San Sebastian locale offers three famous seafood dishes: chipirones en su tinta; angulas, baby eels, which you’ll like; and bacalao a la Vizcaína, sophisticated version of codfish. Both Madrid and Barcelona offer cochinillo asado—savory suckling roast—said to be best in Segovia. Casa Candido is a world-famous restaurant. Another superlative place to have a real Spanish meal while in Madrid is the small, charming El Pulpito, above the former hideout of Luis Cand :las, the Castilian Robin Hood, where you see wonderful food cooked light before you. It has been operating in the same little spot since the Declaration was signed in Philadelphia. Also typical and very good are M?són de San Javier (wonderful baked chicken), La Barraca (with paella the specialty), Hogar Gallego (seafood), Casa Botin (suckling pig), Edelweiss (German-style food), and Casa Valentin, Luigi’s (Italian), El Bodegón (Spanish-European food). At the better restaurants, telephone for a reservation.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Shops open at 9 a.m. Everywhere throughout the country they close at 1:30, reopen about 4 p.m. (4:30 in summer). Closing time is usually about 7:30 p.m. Besides on local festivals and feast days, which vary, they close on major Holy Days of the Roman Catholic Church, such as Good Friday, November 1, Todos Santos (All Saints Day). See what to buy.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Seeing at least one bullfight is a tourist must. All the bigger towns have their bull rings, most have their favorite matador. The pomp and color, the pageantry, the crowds, all add up to a fabulous show. Madrid, Barcelona, Cartagena, Malaga, Seville and Toledo among others, have important rings. The season starts at Valencia during the festivities of the Fallas on March 19, the feast of San José, and ends in June at the fair there, and at Saragossa the second and third weeks in October. There are important ones at both Madrid and Barcelona every Sunday and feast day during the season, and usually on Thursdays, as well.
Madrid’s fine racetrack, the Zarzuela, one of Europe’s best, has good racing each spring and fall, perhaps the best on Sundays and feast days in October. Seville’s Pineda course is open both spring and September, October. Spain’s best racing is perhaps at the magnificent Lasarte course at San Sebastian. There are many big races run off here ^Buring August and September, some of international importance.
|P| Pelota (or jai alai), is extremely popular the year round. Brilliant professionals appear on courts in at least 8 or 10 cities, including Madrid and Barcelona, with matches nightly. San Sebastian has first rapk matches during the summer. The football (soccer) season runs from September until June, with every town of any size having its own team. The Spanish League is large, divided into 3 divisions, with the usual finals and important cup play.
SPORTS.. . Winter sports will be good in Spain from December until April and are centered in La Molina, Puigcerda, in Oerona