First-class hotels in Madrid include the Carlos V, Carlton, Menfis, Suecia. Rates average $4 single, $7 double.
In Barcelona are the new Barcelona and the Cristal Palace; the well-known Hotel Arycasa; Avcnida Palace, convenient and long familiar to Americans; the Manila and Ritz, outstanding and near smart shops; the Colon, facing the Cathedral, with charming local atmosphere. Rates in these de luxe hotels average about $5-$8 single, $8 to $14 double. On the road to Mt. Tibidabo is the de luxe La Rotonda with rooms for transients and housekeeping suites that are very popular with American families. First-class hotels in Barcelona include the Astoria, Condado, Emperatriz, Roma, Majestic. ($2.50 and up single, $3.50 and up double.)
During the summer, some hotels add 25% for air-conditioned rooms, and they are legally permitted to raise their rates during fiestas and peak seasons. Rates quoted above are exclusive of the 15% service charge and numerous taxes. When official rates include these charges, they appear 30% more expensive, but there is actually little increase. Meals are about $3 at most de luxe hotels (plus 10% luxury tax) and $1.50 in first-class hotels.
There are also a number of Government-sponsored inns, some called paradores (converted castles) and some albergues (much like our motels), plain, clean, practical, in areas not served by hotels, at halfway points on main highways. Basic rates, with meals, about $4.50 a day. Regional and Continental cooking—local architectural features in all.	r	5
ARTS ... Outstanding is the Prado National Museum (not to be confused with El Pardo, residence of the chief of state) with Spain' famous art collection to which several days should be devoted; ope .< from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The Royal Palace, now open to the public mornings and afternoons 10 to 1 and 3 to 6, contains fine examples of tapestries, paintings and furnishings. Part of the Royal Palace contains one of the world’s finest collections ¿’I armor. Also worth seeing are various other museums, such as the Museum of Modern Art, the Army Museum, and the Decorative Arts Museum In Barcelona one has the choice of 14 museums covering all periods. Especially recommended are the Municipal Museum ol Archaeology (excavations from Roman and 1;> *hic periods) and the Archive of the Crown of Aragon (one of the n st Important libraries in Spain). Also see the Museum of Catalan \rt, n the world’s greatest collection of Romanesque murals. Theie ire several medieval monasteries in Barcelona and in nearby Montse r t and Pcbk .
BALLET . .. Many prominent European ana A merit.a t t et stars appear in Madrid and Barcelona during the spring. Fini It i an and French opera companies appear in both cities. Tb re are sev al lo a! ballet companies in Barcelona, most of them pe fpxmir :• it wintet BANKS .. . Both Barcelona and Madrid have fc .anch s < t Banco Hispano-Americano (which has connections >i;i,th vera; ir-aoitant U.S. banks), London and South America Bank, and s .noa I> h