Costa Brava, known as the Spanish Riviera, stretches north from Barcelona to the French frontier. Few large de luxe hotels, but many small inns where comfort and food are supreme. Small night clubs, wonderful food, bathing, etc., and excellent personal service. Tops on the Costa Brava is Hostal de la Gavina in S’Agaro. Other good hotels are the Rigat Park, Carabela and Rosamar in Lloret de Mar, the Ancora in Tossa de Mar, the Santa Marta in Santa Cristina de Lloret, and the new Cap Sa Sal near Bagur.
For tours of the Costa Brava, or Andorra, the tiny independent state in the Pyrenees between France and Spain, apply to any travel agency. All-inclusive excursions lasting 4 or 5 days cost $20 to $60.
Valencia... Ancient, beautiful Valencia, rich in historical interest, lies in the heart of the “Huerta de Valencia,” the rich plain that has Spain’s choicest orange and lemon groves. Hotel Excelsior, Hotel Reina Victorial The climate is dry and very mild, the lush land produces several crops each season; there are flowers in profusion everywhere. The province was once the independent Moorish kingdom of Valencia (1021 a.d.); it was retaken by Spain’s national hero, El Cid, and then lost again to the Arabs. It belonged to Aragon, then to Castile. See the many white houses, showing the Moorish influence, the many monuments.
Valencia’s lures are its gay fiestas, the smell of orange blossoms, its wonderful clear sky. The whole countryside is a garden, and it is almost always spring. The fig, pomegranate, and palm trees add to the riot of color, with hundreds of streams crossing the country everywhere. The almond trees and the olive add more green to the landscape. The Cathedral, built on a former mosque, has beautiful paintings by Goya. See the palatial Dos Aguas Palace, the Museo de Bellas Artes. Although it is wonderfully beautiful at any time of the year, try to visit Valencia in March for its greatest feast day, March 19.
Málaga is farther south along the coast. This Andalusian city is the center of Spain’s sunny coast: wonderfully even, mild winters, beau-ful park, fine harbor. Its museum, left to the city by the painter Muñoz .tegrain, is famed for its Murillo and other more modern masterpieces.
National Golf Tournament is played here each winter, and there a, tennis matches, yachting. There are horse races in February.
V (460. >>0 population) is of enormous importance, an artist! i archaeological center with one of all Europe’s most luxurious	(Hotel Alfonso Xdl), with museums of interest, great
chur<	aumenta, work? >f art. The fine arts museum has the best
Murili	archaeological museum has Roman and Arabic art. Un-
der Mo . rule for over 500 years, the city has Arabic architecture S'/erywhere. See the Alcázar, and, as part of the Cathedral, the famous iiralda Tower, 12th-century minaret. The glorious Maria Luisa Park; the Palacio de las Dueñas, belonging to the Duke of Alba; the houses with their iron gates—all these and more will delight the tourist. Holy Week, and the fair which follows it with a full week of bullfights, is 'he time to see the great city at its glorious best.
C arada, with its Alhambra, is where our Washington Irving lived