LIQUOR .. . Excellent native wines. Best wines served with native dishes are fine white Portuguese. There are good Brazilian rum and gin. Scotch and other imported liquors are expensive. Brazilian beer is fine and costs about 20 cents a quart. “Pilsen” and “Brahma Extra” beer cost a little more. Draft beer is called Chopp.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The Strangers Hospital, Rua Passa-gem 188, is staffed with English-speaking doctors and nurses.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are many fine cinema houses. Fairly new Hollywood movies are shown in the big ones.
MUSIC . . . The Teatro Municipal is the mecca of music lovers who from June to September hear world-famous singers and conductors. Villa-Lobos, the composer, is a Brazilian. Brazilian folk songs and chants are famous. There is a National Symphony Orchestra. Fine concerts are given at the National School of Music. The samba is, of course, Brazilian, as is samba music.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . Sacha’s is the newest and swankiest Copaca-bana Beach Boite. It is expensive but nice. Excellent food and soft music for dancing. The better known hotel night clubs are the Stadium in the Excelsior Hotel, the Midnight Room in the Copacabana, the Béguin in the Gloria Hotel, and the Night and Day in the Serrador Hotel, the latter two with excellent Brazilian floor show. The Stadium offers dining and dancing with no cover or minimum charge. Others feature dancing and entertainment, usually with a moderate cover or minimum charge. For those who like their drinks in a quiet atmosphere, there are countless small, intimate bars with low lights and soft music. Some of the better known are the Scotch Bar, Club 36, Michell’s, Little Club, Bacara and Maxim’s.
RELIGION . . . Union Church, Protestant nondenominational, Rua Paula Freitas, 99. Our Lady of Mercy Chapel, for English-speaking Catholics, Rua Visconde de Caravelas. Jewish Synagogue, Rua Tenente Possolo. Christ Church (Anglican), Rua Real Grandeza. First Church of Christ Scientist, Av. Churchill.
RESTAURANTS . . . Most of the hotel restaurants are excellent. The Copacabana Palace Bife de Ouro and Excelsior restaurants are considered the finest. Restaurants specializing in French cuisine are very popular in Rio. La Crémaillère and Le Bec Fin are the best. For those who like Italian food, Al Pappagallo and Sorriento are well recommended. The Albamar serves wonderful seafood Brazilian style. Churrascaria Gaucha and Recreio for barbecued meat. Restaurant Mesbla serves fine food and offers a magnificent view of Sugar Loaf and the famous Rio harbor. The Vendôme offers excellent French cuisine. The better hotel restaurants in the city are the Gloria, Ambassador and Serrador. The Santos Dumont Airport Restaurant is convenient and good. For suggestions on various Brazilian food specialties to try at restaurants see the section food above.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . H. Stern, Av. Rio Branco, 173, Amsterdam, Rua Mexico, 41, and Maximino, Rua Santa Clara, 27-B for set and unset precious and semi-precious stones. Casa Huge, Rua Buenos Aires, 91 and Zitrim, Rua Buenos Aires, 110 for souvenirs