Ouro Verde, California and Olinda all enjoy a magnificent view of the ocean. The Copacabana Palace has a swimming pool and night club. The Excelsior and Miramar have excellent restaurants. The “Studium” in the Excelsior is very popular for late dinner and dancing. The Gloria, closer to town, is the best of the older hotels, and has been thoroughly modernized. The view of Rio’s harbor from the Gloria is magnificent. It has a swimming pool and one of Rio’s most popular night clubs. The Novo Mundo is a good hotel located near downtown Rio. The better hotels located in the city are the Serrador, Ambassador, San Francisco and Guanabara Palace.
ARTS. . . The Museum of the Indian, located in front of Gate No. 15 of the Maracana Stadium, is the newest and most modern museum in the city. It consists of a series of expositions, agreeably organized about different themes of the life of Brazilian Indians. The National Museum in Rio’s Quinta da Boa Vista Park, one of the oldest in Brazil and once the residence of Dom Pedro I and Dom Pedro II, has interesting collections of mineralogy and ethnography. Natural Historic Museum, on Praca Marechal Ancora, has a superb collection of historical objects, silver, porcelain, paintings, etc. National Museum of Fine Arts, Avenida Rio Branco, houses collections of old paintings and sculpture and also has a gallery showing contemporary artists. The Museum of Modern Art exhibits modern painting and sculpture. Museum of Historical and Geographical Institute, Praca Mahatma Gandhi, has interesting collections from the period of the monarchy.
BALLET. . . Foreign and local ballet companies appear at the Teatro Municipal during Rio’s winter season (May to August).
BANKS. . . In Rio: National City Bank of New York, First National Bank of Boston, Royal Bank of Canada, all on Avenida Rio Branco; American Express Co., Rua Mexico 74.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS. . . New Year’s Day; Pre-Lenten Carnival; May 1, International Labor Day; June 29, St. Peter’s Day; September 7, Independence Day; November 1 and 2, All Saints and All Souls Days; November 15, Republic Day; Christmas.
The Carnival in Rio is one of the gayest in the world. All business stops for three days. There are costume balls, among them the famous Copacabana Palace and Municipal Theatre Ball. There are also galas at clubs, and private homes, dancing in the streets, lavish costumes, fireworks, music, pretty girls and everything it takes to make a carnival. It is always held just before Lent.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO... Brazilian cigars are among the world’s finest mild cigars. Suerdick Co. makes the best. American cigarettes are available.
CLIMATE. . . It’s always summer in Rio. During the winter season, June to September, the nights are quite cool and there is an occasional cool day. But temperatures below 50 degrees are almost unknown. It’s often very hot in Rio’s summer.
CLUBS. .. A.B.I. Brazilian Press Association (no cards needed) has a separate section for non-member guests; American Chamber of Commerce and American Society at Av. Rio Branco, 80,