across the bay, which is the residential section for the English colony. There are pleasant beaches at Icarai and Imbui for a quiet day’s jaunt.
Petropolis... is the leading summer resort in Brazil. It is about an hour’s ride from the capital and boasts one of the finest resort hotels in the world: Hotel Quitandinha, decorated by Dorothy Draper. It is set in the middle of fantastic tropical scenery, including orchid-draped trees on the edge of a lake. The hotel is the last word in modernity and swank. There are 20-foot bird cages, indoor Roman pools, a theater, a marble entrance hall and almost anything else you can imagine. English is just one of the languages spoken. The food is good and the rates not exorbitant. Here you can swim, ride, boat, play tennis or dance. The President has a suite there. Nearby is the royal palace built by the last Emperor of Brazil, Dom Pedro II. The palace is now the Imperial Museum. You may see the royal jewels Thursdays and Sundays.
Another popular resort nearby is Therezopolis, which is about 3 hours from Rio. Best hotels there are Fazenda da Paz and Pensao P inheir os.
Sao Paulo. . . South of Rio is Sao Paulo, the great industrial city of Brazil. It can be reached in one hour by air, or seven hours by bus. The trip by train is overnight. The good hotels are the Othon Palace, the Jaragua, the Excelsior, the Lord and Hotel Sao Paulo. The famous Snake Institute Butantan is worthy of a visit. Also interesting is the permanent industrial exhibition at Parque Ibirapuera. Night life is very active. Have dinner and dance at Fasano, Rua Brigadeiro Tobias; go also to Oasis which is one of the better night clubs in Sao Paulo.
Santos. . .Farther south is Santos, the world’s largest coffee port. This is a resort center with beaches and excursions to nearby mountains. The Parque Balneario and the Atlantic are good hotels. See the orchidarium and Guaruja across the bay. The drive or cograil trip from Sao Paulo to Santos is exciting and interesting. Buses run very frequently between the two points; the ride takes about one hour.
Iguassu Falls... On the Argentine border is one of the sights of the world. They can be reached in about five hours by plane. Larger than Niagara, they are two and a half miles wide. Eight miles away are the falls of Sete Quedas (more on Iguassu Falls in section on Argentina ).
Belem. . . the capital city of the State of Para is at the mouth of the Amazon, way north of Rio. It has a fine hotel, the Hotel Grande, which is immaculate and has good food (operated by Intercontinental Hotels Corporation).
Manaus. . . For the adventurous, looking for something different off the tourist path, there are frequent flights from Rio and Belem via Panair do Brasil to Manaus, 1,000 miles up the Amazon in the heart of the jungle. The center of the rubber boom of 50 years ago, Manaus has a fabulous history. You can take river trips, fish for tucunare, one of the world’s great game fish, and buy an alligator hide or