and curios; Casa Anglo-Americana, Rua da Assembleia, 73, antiques and Portuguese silver; Casa Imperial, Rua da Assembleia, 73, antiques and Portuguese silver; Casa Imperial, Rua Goncalves Dias 56, for lingerie and wonderful handmade blouses; Henrique Liberal and Cia, excellent antiques and wood carvings; Casa Sloper, Rua Uru-guaiana and Mesbla, Rua do Passeio 42, are the best department stores in the city. Perfumadas Carneiro, Rua do Ouvidor, 103 and Casa Hermany, Rua Goncalves Dias, 50 are best for French perfumes. Don’t be tempted by street peddlers of perfumes. For other suggestions see what to buy below.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Around Rio, horse races at the Jockey Club (Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays). The races are important in the social life of Rio. The Grande Premio Brazil race in August draws everyone who is anyone. Soccer at Municipal Stadium. Boxing matches at Municipal Stadium. International tennis matches.
SPORTS ... In Rio golf at Gavea Golf and Country Club in the midst of orchid-bearing trees, sensational scenery, card necessary. Itanhanga Golf Club at Lake Jacarepagua is another scenic marvel; good course, card necessary. The Yacht Club of Rio de Janeiro on Avenida Pasteur is the best in town. This club is host to the Buenos Aires-Rio annual yacht ocean race. Nice restaurant, good drinks. Card necessary. Sociedade Hipica Brasileira for horseback riding, card necessary. There is fine salt and fresh-water fishing around Rio. In the highland lakes there are plenty of fish to be caught. Hunting is good in the interior-—boar, duck, alligator and onca (Brazilian tiger). Hunting parties very difficult to arrange. The Rio Country Club has a swimming pool and tennis courts, card needed. Swimming, of course, is a national sport. If you want to climb mountains, you can do it right in Rio.
THEATERS . . . There are several theaters in Rio. During their winter you see foreign companies as well as local ones. Most of the plays are in Portuguese, but even if you don’t understand it, you’ll enjoy the experience. For those who enjoy musical reviews Type francais there is usually a good show at the Recreio. Times of performances 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., except Mondays.
TIME . . . Two hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... A service charge of 10 per cent is added to your hotel bills. It is usual to tip 10 per cent in addition. When taking a cab, tip about 10 to 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis cruise the city. All have red license plates. You can phone the nearest taxi stand for a cab. Community taxis, called Lotago, carry 8 to 20 passengers and charge about 10 cents each. Some follow regular routes marked on their windshields.
Carry small denomination cruzeiro notes because you can’t get change for the larger ones when using taxis.
Buses and streetcars operate along Copacabana section and throughout the city. During rush hours they are very crowded.