19th floor; American Club, Ave. Rio Branco, 80, 20th floor, is an American Businessmen’s Luncheon Club, excellent food and bar service; University Club (for graduates and students of North American Universities), Avenida Graca Aranha, 182; American Legion, Avenida Graca Aranha, 182; Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.; Rotary Club, Avenida Nilo Peganha and Lions Club. For golf and yacht club, see SPORTS.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . Beware of the traffic—South Americans drive with more abandon than we do. The dinner hour is from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. Cocktails are at 6:00. Local businessmen stop between appointments for a cafezinho (demi-tasse) at one of the innumerable sidewalk cafés.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Long-distance telephone; Radio Inter-nacional-Radional; telegrams and radiograms and cables. All America Cables, Avenida Rio Branco; Radio Internacional, Avenida Almirante Barroso; Radiobras, Avenida Rio Branco (for long distance, dial 01); Western Telegraph Co., Rua Candelaria; airmail.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the cruzeiro, worth about 1.5 cents. You get best value in exchange at the cambios (money exchange shops). The rate fluctuates widely.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ...You may bring in: liquor, cameras, cigarettes in limited quantities. You need passport, vaccination certificate, Brazilian visa or tourist card, four passport photos.
DRUG STORES . . . No soda fountains but most drugs.
ELECTRIC CURRENT . . . 110-120 volts, 50 cycle, a.c.
FAUNA . . . Diverse species found in temperate and torrid zones, including alligators, jaguars, mountain cats.
FLORA ... Orchids; Bougainvillea; 100,000 different species of plants and trees can be seen at the Botanical Gardens.
FOOD ... Naturally coffee is plentiful, for Brazil is the world’s largest producer of coffee. All the hotels serve international food if you don’t want to sample the native dishes. If you do, however, try feijoada, made of meat, black beans and rice, cooked separately and spiced with herbs. The Brazilians do well by fish of all sorts. If you like hot food try Vatapa, a fish porridge which contains several varieties of fish and shrimp mixed with a local vegetable oil called Dende, then sprinkled with pepper and paprika, served very hot. Try camaroes a la Grec (shrimps on a spit) at the Copacabana. Local beef dishes are superb. Try churrasco, grilled filet of beef with onions and peppers. The Brazilian Creole dishes are magnificent.
GAMBLING ... The casinos in Rio were shut down a few years ago. But there is racing at the Jockey Club track on Saturday and Sunday with pari-mutuel betting.
LANGUAGE . . . Portuguese, but English is understood in tourist centers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... Can be arranged through your hotel. Two-day delivery if requested.