WATER . • • It is advisable to drink only bottled water. Agua Lindoya is non-carbonated; Agua Magneziana is mildly carbonated and Agua Caxamba is highly carbonated. All are good.
WHAT TO BUY • • • The best buys in Brazil are the precious and semi-precious stones. Topazes, amethysts, aquamarines and tourmalines are the more popular stones. Alligator bags and other leather goods are cheaper here than at home. French-type perfume is cheap, but do not patronize street peddlers. Wood carvings, antique silver, hand-made lingerie and blouses are all good buys here.
WHAT TO WEAR • • • Women will want lightweight spring or summer clothes, plenty of beach wear. A great deal of black is worn in Rio during the winter, especially evenings, so some good little black dresses will come in handy. Hats and jewels are worn after six. Fur jackets and stoles are seen in the evening. A lightweight woolen suit is always nice to have along. Slacks and a topcoat may come in handy. Evening and dinner clothes for the season. Men will want linen suits, lightweight wool suits, beach wear, dinner clothes, if you are there during the Brazilian social season, June thru September. Highly recommended are seersucker suits or wrinkle-proof synthetics for men during Brazilian summers.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . •.
Rio de Janeiro • • • Rio is full of things to see. You can scarcely miss the magnificent Copacabana Beach section with its serpentine mosaic walk famed the world over. Neither can you miss Sugar Loaf Mountain or Corcovado (Hunchback Mountain) which tower over the city. Sugar Loaf is a huge granite cone at the entrance of the bay. Take the cable car to Sugar Loaf and a funicular to Corcovado. The summit of Corcovado is crowned by the famed statue of Christ the Redeemer. The views from these two spots are fabulous. Visit the Gavea district by car; it affords some of the most beautiful scenery anywhere. This is where the race track is, too. Among the many churches, be sure to see the Church of Nossa Senhora da Gloria do Outeiro with its Bible scenes in blue tile. The Sao Bento Monastery is interesting, but only men are allowed in the cloisters. The Guanabara Palace, the residence of the President (now the municipality), is at Rua Pinheiro Machado, was once the residence of Princess Izabel. The Sao Joaquim Palace, Praca da Gloria, is the official residence of the Archbishop.
The largest park in Rio is the Quinta da Boa Vista, containing the National Museum, once the residence of two emperors. It has zoological gardens, a small tropical-fish aquarium. Botanical Gardens are situated near Lake Rodrigo de Freitas and the Jockey Club. Here is a great avenue of palms 2,200 feet long. Tijuca Forest is fine for a day’s excursion.
A trip to Paqueta, an island at the far end of the bay, is a delight. You may hike, cycle or hire a carriage for a drive from one end of the island to the other. There is a ferry trip from Praca 15 de Novembro and a shorter ferry ride to Niteroi, a picturesque town