Why more people
go abroad by Pan American
than by ANY other air or
Every hour of every day, Pan Am proves its point — International air travel is here for everybody!
For you, first and foremost — because lower fares, faster and more frequent flights make overseas holidays just as practical, just as reasonable as ordinary, stay-at-home "vacations”. Because Pan Am’s wider range of services can bring your dollars and your desires together. Since the day when Pan Am pioneered practical transatlantic Tourist fares with the first, pacesetting Rainbow flight, low-cost Clipper travel has led the way.
And daily, First Class President flights to every corner of the world set an ever-higher standard of luxurious travel. Fine full-course meals are the order of the day, with never a tab or a tip. Through the starlit skies you can rest your way abroad in Pan Am’s own Sleeperette
Service ... or in a full-length berth, at little extra cost.
Then there’s the President Special. You simply cannot buy finer travel anywhere in the world — by land, by sea, by air. It’s extra-fare . . . and well worth more than the modest difference, according to knowing travelers between New York and London, Paris, Frankfurt. Extra attendants minister to the limited number of passengers . . . serve the 7-course champagne dinners . . . honor the ladies with orchids and perfume.
Pan Am’s President and President Special flights on giant Super Stratocruisers feature the ultimate luxury for those who wish it, too — the privacy, the personalized wining and dining service of the President Stateroom. Each stateroom has its own service cabinet, containing wash basin and mirror as well as beverage supplies and glasses, a separate clothes closet and extra space for luggage.
More people prefer Pan Am's
It’s what makes the difference. It has gained and kept the leadership in world-wide air travel for Pan American. It has consistently placed the consideration of the passenger — your comfort and your convenience — ahead of everything.
It has made possible such a near fantastic record as Pan Am’s more than 60,000 crossings of the
EXPERIENCE
Atlantic . . . 35,000 of the Pacific . . . 2,500 trips around the world. That means carrying over 17 million passengers over a billion comfortable miles.
In fact, one out of every four people who enter or leave the Continental U.S. . . . does so on a Pan American Clipper. You can be one of them. See your PAA Travel Agent . . . tomorrow.
10
Some of your stopping places will be Honolulu, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Bangkok, Calcutta, Jerusalem and, of course, Rome and Paris. You’ll see Japan’s Imperial Palace, the fascinating waterfront of Hong Kong, the famed Temple of Dawn in Bangkok, the sacred Ganges, Taj Mahal, the Holy Land, the glories of ancient Rome and the Vatican, Versailles, the Seine, etc. All in 37 wonderful pleasure-filled days.
From New York or San Francisco
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.......................................$2294.05
Pay Later Down Payment........................................... 230.05
20 Monthly Payments.............................................. 118.63
Visit Honolulu, the ancient Japanese cities of Tokyo, Nikko, Kyoto, the Crown Colony of Hong Kong. You’ll see world-famed Raffles Museum in Singapore . . . Balinese dancers . . . colorful Bangkok, teeming Calcutta. You’ll wonder at the Moghul glories in India, the Taj Mahal. To Egypt, by way of Karachi, Beirut, Damascus. Then the Holy Land — with guided visits to all the sacred scenes of every Western faith . . . and up through the ages to modern Italy and France with their great cultural treasures, their fascination of shops, of street scenes, of night spots. Then your Pan Am Clipper will whisk you back stateside!
From New York
INCLUDED IN TOUR PRICES
Transportation: Comfortable, dependable Clipper air transportation starting from and returning to the Gateway City you select as your point of departure . . . transfer between air and rail terminals and hotels . . . private car or coach sightseeing tours .. . local air transportation where indicated.
Hotels: Carefully selected hotel accommodations are arranged in advance and included in the Pan Am Holiday prices.
Meals: With a few exceptions, such as where hotels specify other than American Plan, meals are included. In some major cities, breakfasts only.
Not Included: Laundry and valet services, wines, liquors and other personal items; U. S. transportation taxes and taxes levied by other governments are not included.
All Holiday prices shown are subject to change without notice and to the conditions described in the tour folders from which these typical tours are selected.
OTHER INFORMATION
Passports: Many of the tours in this Bargain Book do not require passports of U. S. citizens. Your Travel Agent can give you full details about what papers are needed and how to go about getting them.
Baggage Allowances: Tourist Class — 44 lbs.........First
Class — 66 lbs.
Reservations and Payment: Make your reservations for any of these Holidays through your Travel Agent ... at no extra cost. He’ll explain how you may pay for your Holiday after it’s over, with only a modest down payment.
Departure points, down payments and monthly installments shown in this Bargain Book are typical arrangements, based on Tourist Class fares, including price differential under the World-Wide Plan. Ask your Travel Agent about other convenient low-payment terms from anywhere in the U. S. ... on any Pan Am Clipper service.
(Note: Now new repeal of overseas transportation tax saves you up to 10% on travel to many destinations abroad.)
1 1
For full information on these and other similar Pan Am Holidays, ask for descriptive folders.