3-DAY ALL EXPENSE AIR CGtUBSES T© ATLANTIC CBTY
9

OT!CML(
3E~
E*VT
Rwest
RyÇÇNJBO^
' 0R.\O<ie
m.

n £w yosK c*ry
north ÏEPitH Airport
ENTIRE COST ONLY
AT LAST, here is something really new, modern, and economical in the way of a short holiday trip!
For only $49.50, you can go by air to Atlantic City . . . occupy outside room with private bath at the luxurious Ambassador or Ritz Hotels for three days—enjoy their justly famous cuisine and excellent service . . . swim in the ocean or the pool, loaf or play on the broad, white beach . . . and then back to New York by air. A trip de luxe at an amazingly low cost, if there ever was one!
You leave the heat and noise of New York in a luxurious, multi-motored airliner, manned by experienced transport pilots, a radio operator, and a steward. In the 5 5 cool minutes of flying, you pass over the New York skyline, over Brooklyn, Coney Island, Sandy Hook, Asbury Park . . . over the Lakehurst Naval Air Station, and on down the Jersey coast to Atlantic City; then three glorious days of play or rest!
-erv
If you feel a little fuzzy, if the appetite is falling off, or if you just want some real fun, invest in this Air Cruise to Atlantic City. No other investment you can make today will yield such dividends in health and pleasure. Take-off today.
Four planes daily each way. Sundays, one plane each way.
ALL
S IPAD®
INFORMATION
During the summer season, you can start this Three-Day Air Cruise to Atlantic City any day of the week.
Forty-nine dollars and fifty cents ($49.50), all inclusive gives you:
1.	A round trip by air from New York to Atlantic City.
2.	A comfortable outside room with private bath for three nights at either the Ambassador or Ritz Hotels in Atlantic City.
3.	All meals.
4.	Ocean bathing, pool and beach privileges.
5.	Motor car transportation to and from Airports at New York and Atlantic City.
BAAAA6E AND TRANSPORTATION
30 pounds of baggage per person free—over 30 pounds, 10 cents per pound. In New York, motor cars leave the New York Airways’ passenger terminal, at the Grand Central Cadillac Renting Corporation, 43 Vanderbilt Avenue, 30 minutes before the departure of the plane from the Glenn Curtiss Airport at North Beach, L. I. In Atlantic City, motor cars leave the Ambassador or Ritz Hotels 20 minutes before departure of plane from Atlantic City Municipal Airport.
RESERVATIONS
For reservations, call, write or phone your own Travel Agent, any leading hotel, or New York Airways, Air Cruise Department, 43 Vanderbilt Avenue at 44th Street, phone, CAledonia 5-2 360. After 5 P. M. call CAledonia 5-2 276. Address all communications to general offices,
122 East 42nd Street, New York.
JLÜIÜI'
AT/-ANTIC CirV
'Vur^i c. /	^ I (=>o Si~r