Europe "BUDGET TOURS" Planned
TWO WEEKS TOUR PAEC-1
Visiting Italy, Switzerland and France
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive ROME. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
3rd Day In ROME, the Eternal City, where Christian and and Pagan monuments compete in beauty
4th Day and majesty. The sightseeing will include a half day tour of the Vatican, visiting the Sis-tine Chapel, the Picture and Tapestry Galleries, Library and Christian Museums as well as other landmarks enroute; a half day tour to the Roman Forum including also Palatine Hill, Church of St. Peter in Chains and the Basilica of St. Paul Outside the Walls, the Victor Emanuel Chapel and the Palazzo Venezia; and a full day tour of the charming summer resort Tivoli, best known for Villa D’Este and its gardens with its fabulous fountain display, Frascati, Castelli Romani and Castelgandolfo, summer residence of the Holy Father.
5th Day Leave Rome by de-luxe motorcoach across the Hill Towns of Tuscany to Florence.
6th Day In FLORENCE, the museum city of Italian Renaissance art. A morning sightseeing tour will cover some of the most important sights —the Cathedral, Medici Chapels, Pitti Palace and Piazzale Michelangelo.
7th Day Leave Florence by morning train to Venice.
8th Day In VENICE, the romantic city built on over a hundred islands, criss-crossed by a multitude of canals. The day will be devoted to a tour of the city on foot and by gondola visiting the beautiful Church of St. Mark, the famed Doges Palace, the Bridge of Sighs and the Dungeons; gondola ride on the Grand Canal passing the Rialto Bridge, Church of the Friars and la Rezzonico Palace.
9th Day Leave Venice by morning train via Milan and through the Simplon Tunnel to Berne.
10th Day In BERNE, the quaint Federal Capital of and Switzerland. The sightseeing will include a
11th Day morning tour of the city, and a full day excursion to beautiful Lucerne and famous Interlaken region.
12th Day Leave Berne by morning train to Zurich and by plane to Paris.
13th Day In PARIS, the capital of world elegance and and fashion. While in Paris the sightseeing will
14th Day include a tour of the historical sights—Place de L’Opera, Rue de la Paix, Tuileries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Chatelet, and Place de la Bastille; a tour of the modern city—Madeleine Church, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Dome des In-valides, with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc de Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, and an afternoon excursion to Versailles visiting the Palace and grounds, Petit Trianon and Museum of Carriages.
15th Day Leave Paris for New York by Pan American Clipper.
THREE WEEKS TOUR PAEC-2
Visiting England, Holland, Germany, the Dolomites, Switzerland and France
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive LONDON. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
3rd Day and 4th Day In LONDON, the
sprawling British Capital where the pomp of past centuries blends in fascinating fashion with the most modern aspects of the XXth Century. The sightseeing includes a morning tour of Central London —the Strand, Fleet Street, London Bridge, the Tower of London (for viewing the fabulous Crown Jewels), Bank of England, St. Paul’s Cathedral, bombed areas and the Old Curiosity Shop, and an afternoon tour of the West End, Hyde Park, Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Houses of Parliament, Big Ben, Piccadilly, Regent and Oxford Streets. The next day an excursion will be made through the Shakespeare Country to Stratford-on-Avon. 5th Day Morning plane to AMSTERDAM, the Dutch capital built on a million piles. In Amsterdam, an afternoon motorcoach tour will be made to the picturesque fishing village of Volendam and the interesting Isle of Marken.
6th Day After a morning motorcoach tbur of the city, including Mint Square, Rokin, Damrak, Weeping Tower, Royal Palace, Rijksmuseum, Willemsparkweg and old canals, leave by late afternoon train to COLOGNE.
th Day By steamer up the Rhine to WIESBADEN, one of Europe’s best known health resorts.
1
V
w.
8th Day After a morning tour of the city including Kurhaus, Opera, Hot Springs, Neroberg, Greek Chapel, the main city promenade, Biebrich Castle, Henkell Champagne factory and other interesting places, leave by afternoon train to HEIDELBERG, the romantic old university town on the Neckar.
9th Day After a short private automobile tour of the city via Bismarck Square, New Bridge, on right bank of Neckar River (fine view of the old city and castle) to Scheffelhaus (Student Prince’s Home) then via Old Bridge, Market Square, Town Hall, Holy Ghost Church, Ritter Hotel (oldest building in town), Old and New University. Return via Red Ox (old famous Student’s Inn) leave by afternoon train to Munich.
10th Day In MUNICH, the Bavarian capital, famous for its baroque houses and monuments. A full day excursion through the Alps of Bavaria via Wolfratshausen, the Koehel, Wal-chensee to Mittenwald, famed for its violins. Proceed via Garmisch Partenkirchen and Oberammergau, site of the Passion Plays.
11th Day Leave Munich by afternoon train to Salzburg.
12th Day In SALZBURG, the picturesque birthplace of Mozart. A half day tour will cover the main points of interest in the city visiting modern city and Old Town with Cathedral, St. Peter’s Church, Mirabell Gardens and other places of interest.
13th Day Leave Salzburg by morning motorcoach via the Grossglockner to LIENZ.
14th Day Continue into Italy and through the Dolomites to Cortina D’Ampezzo.
15th Day In CORTINA D'AMPEZZO, the heart of the scraggy Dolomite Mountains.
16th Day Leave Cortina by motorcoach and proceed over the Brenner Pass to Innsbruck.
'i h” , !t. li-.'í
3-i
1 ff » M Wj$
I * » * H S< ”
18th Day 19th Day
17th Day In INNSBRUCK, the colorful center of the Tyrolian Alps. A half day city tour will cover some of the sights in and around the city including the Old Town with the “Golden Roof”, Mount Isel and Castle Amras. By morning train to Lucerne.
In LUCERNE, the celebrated Swiss resort on the Lake of Four Cantons. A full day through the Jungfrau Region will afford a view of one of the most breathtaking panoramas imaginable via Alpnach, Brunig Pass (3,500 ft.) Brienz, Lake of Brienz, Interlaken, Lauterbrunnen, Trummelbach Falls, Grindelwald, Brunig Pass.
20th Day Leave Lucerne by afternoon train to Zurich. Then by plane to Paris.
In PARIS, with its wealth of monuments, museums and priceless art masterpieces. In Paris, a morning tour of the modern city includes Madeleine Church, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Dome des Invalides, with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc of Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, an afternoon tour of the historical ’sights via Place de L’Opéra, Rue de la Paix, Tuileries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Chatelet, and Place de la Bastille, and an afternoon tour to Versailles via Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, St. Cloud to Versailles. Visit Palace and grounds, Museum of Carriages, and Petit Trianon.
24th Day Leave Paris for New York by Pan American Clipper.
21st Day to
23rd Day
with you in mind
THIRTY DAY TOUR PAEC-3
Visiting France, Italy, Switzerland,
Belgium, Holland and Great Britain
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive Paris. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
3rd Day In PARIS, the French capital with its broad through boulevards, sidewalk cafes, and innumerable 6th Day historical monuments. The sightseeing will include a morning tour of modern Paris— Madeleine Church, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Dome des Invalides, with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc of Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, an afternoon tour of historical Paris via Place de L’Opera, Rue de la Paix, Tuileries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Chatelet, and Place de la Bastille, an afternoon tour to Versailles via Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, St. Cloud to Versailles. Visit Palace and grounds, Museum of Carriages, and Petit Trianon; and a full day tour to Fontainebleau, Fontainebleau Palace and Gardens.
7th Day Leave Paris by day train to Nice.
8th Day In NICE, the world famous cosmopolitan center of the French Riviera. A half day drive will be taken to Monte Carlo via Grand Corniche Road, La Turbie, Menton.
9th Day By motorcoach along the French and Italian Riviera to GENOA.
10th Day By morning train to Rome.
11th Day In ROME, the Eternal city where western to civilization was born. During your stay in 13th Day Rome a complete two-day tour of all the sights of the city including the Vatican with its collection of treasures, the Sistine Chapel, the Roman Forum, the Borghese Gallery, Hadrian’s Tomb, Four Great Basilicas, the Appian Way, the Catacombs, Baths of Cara-calla, the Colosseum, etc.
14th Day By motorcoach via the Hill Towns of Tuscany to Florence.
15th Day In FLORENCE, the Home of the Medicis and	where	Italian Renaissance Art	can	be ad-
16th Day	mired	in all	its splendor. A full	day	tour of
the city will include visits to most of the famous monuments such as the Cathedral, Medici Chapel, Pitti Palace (Galleries and Royal Apartments), Piazzale Michelangelo (for view of city), Uffizi Galleries, Piazza Donatello, San Domenico, and Fiesole.
1 7fN Hfiu R\/ mornmrr troin	\/am’pn
^	-	-----/	— J	 ^	’ VlllWv>
18th Day	In VENICE,	the Queen of the Adriatic with
its palace-fronted canals. An afternoon gondola ride through the city including some of the inner canals and part of Grand Canal, passing the Rialto Bridge, and visiting some of the famous churches and palaces.
19th Day By morning train through the Simplon Tunnel to Berne.
20th Day In BERNE, the delightful Federal Capital of and Switzerland. Sightseeing will include a morn-21 st Day ing tour of the most interesting city sights and a full day excursion through Central Switzerland, to Lucerne and Interlaken.
22nd Day By morning train via Basle to Brussels.
23rd Day In BRUSSELS, the Belgian capital with its many medieval buildings. A morning tour will cover the more noteworthy sights of the city including Parliament, Wiertz Museum, Royal Park, King’s Palace, Palace of Justice, Mannekin Fountain, Grand Place with Town Hall and the King’s house, etc.
24th Day By morning train to Amsterdam.
25th Day In AMSTERDAM, the busy and prosperous Dutch capital built on piles. A full day tour will cover the city as well as the village of Volendam and. the Isle of Marken including Mint Square, Rokin, Damrak, Weeping Tower, Royal Palace, Rijksmuseum, Willemsparkweg, and old canals. Continue in the afternoon via Broek in Waterland, Monnikendam to Volendam, the picturesque village and the Isle of Marken.
26th Day Leave Amsterdam by overnight crosschannel service. Cabin provided on board.
27th Day Arrive London in the morning.
28th Day In LONDON, the sprawling capital of the through British Empire. The sightseeing program 30th Day will include a morning and an afternoon tour of all the sights of London—the Strand, Fleet Street, London Bridge, the Tower of London (for viewing the fabulous Crown Jewels), Bank of England, St. Paul’s Cathedral, bombed areas and the old Curiosity Shop, Hyde Park, Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Houses of Parliament, Big Ben, Piccadilly, Regent and Oxford Streets, a full day tour through the Shakespeare Country to Stratford-on-Avon.
31 st Day Leave London for New York by Pan American Clipper.