His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, by Special Declaration has Proclaimed 1954 as Marian Year to Honor the 100th Anniversary of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception
Catholics from all over the world will be traveling to Europe at the invitation of His Holiness to celebrate the glory of the Virgin Mary during this “Little Holy Year”, which became effective December 8th, 1953 and will close December 8th, 1954.
The enclosed itinerary has been specially planned to provide not only ALL THE IMPORTANT SHRINES such as Lourdes, Fatima, Lisieux and Rome, but many other famous ones not usually included in the average offering.
The itinerary is ideally suited for small group pilgrimages under the leadership of a Spiritual Director, for which please consult your TRAVEL AGENT who will help you bring your plans to fruition.
Pan American World Airways, official carrier for pilgrims during Holy Year in 1950, will provide your transportation. Your giant Clipper flies in the smooth air high above the weather, with comfortable reclining seats and fine complimentary meals enroute. You can really relax knowing that you’re in the dependable hands of the World’s Most Experienced Airline.
Land arrangements are in the care of the well-known tour operators Exprinter Travel Service, Inc., who represent your travel agent and whose experience in the handling of Catholic travel dates back 61 years, starting in 1893 with special pilgrimages to the Holy Land and all the important shrines of Europe.
You will visit important shrines in the following order: LISIEUX, international pilgrimage center in Normandy; the Shrine of the Miraculous Medal in PARIS; the tomb of Ste. Bernadette in NEVERS: PARAY-LE-MONIAL in Central France; ARS near Lyons: LOURDES, at the foot of the Pyrenees, truly the city of the Blessed Virgin; PADUA near Venice, of St. Anthony fame; LORETO, near the Adriatic, devoted to the Madonna of Loreto, Patron of Aviators; ASSISI steeped in the glory of St. Francis; ROME with devotions at the basilica of St. Mary Major, and an audience with the Holy Father; and, finally and best accessible by air, OUR LADY OF FATIMA in Portugal.
PRICE INCLUDES
AIR PASSAGE: Round trip transportation between New York and points specified in the itinerary by “Rainbow Service”, basis in-season fares effective January 1, 1954. For off-season groups reduce price by $70.00.
LAND TRANSPORTATION: Pullman-type streamlined motor-coach. Consult your Travel Agent regarding small patries by private automobile.
SERVICES OF A COMPETENT TECHNICAL DIRECTOR, who
will be with the Pilgrims throughout Europe, in addition to the Spiritual Director on organized groups.
HOTELS carefully selected as to location and facilities, such as Ambassador, Paris; de la Grotte, Lourdes; Plaza France, Nice; Continental, Rome; Avenida Palace, Lisbon. Basis twin bedded rooms with private bath where obtainable.
MEALS: Three a day, basis plain breakfasts and table d’hote luncheons and dinners, except lunches on days when traveling.
SIGHTSEEING by motor as specified.
TRANSFERS: Covering passengers and two pieces of hand luggage between hotels and air terminals and other stopovers. Passengers may also take a small overnight bag if handled at owner’s expense.
GRATUITIES: Tips to hotel servants, baggage porters, and during sightseeing trips are included.
NOT INCLUDED
Meals en route, landing and take-off taxes, conveyance to and from morning mass or special reception, table waters and other beverages, laundry, and items of a personal nature.
RESPONSIBILITY—All arrangements tor trans-Atlantic transportation are made by Pan American World Airways System, which company is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passage contract ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the airline and the purchaser of these tours and/or the passenger.
All these Cruises will be carried out under the business management of Exprinter Travel Service, Inc., with offices and representatives throughout Europe.
The management acts as agent for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and other principals. While exercising every care possible, all tickets issued are subject to the terms and conditions under which such owners or contractors operate, for which neither the management nor any affiliated or subsidiary company shall be or become liable or responsible in any way. The management cannot be held responsible for personal injury or loss of passengers' baggage, nor for any delay, accident, or loss of personal property, or for additional expenses, due to war, storm, floods, disruption of advertised schedules, or other causes beyond their control, and any such expenses would have to be borne by the passenger.
The management also reserves the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or en route, or to withdraw any tour. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar and will be lowered or raised in accordance with the values prevailing when you pay the final balance of your tour. Fares are subject to change without notice.
Mariait |rar f ilgrintagrs
m ...
BY MOTOR TO ALL THE IMPORTANT SHRINES
No. 158—1/54 published by Exprinter Travel Service
Printed in U.S.A.
AIR TRAVEL VIA
Pan American World Airways