A Brief History of Pan Am
In 1927, the year in which a single engine airplane flew 3610 miles non-stop from New York to Paris in man’s first non-stop crossing of the Atlantic, another airplane carrying seven passengers flew 90 miles from Key West to Havana. Both events were of major significance to the future of air transportation.
The first forecast the scope and potential of air travel, the second the reliability and convenience of this new means of public transportation.
Pan Am was founded by Juan Terry Trippe in 1927 with that 1 hour 20 minute flight to Cuba that replaced a bumpy seven-hour crossing across the Straits of Florida by boat.
Soon afterward, the company expanded its fleet to three Fokker F-7 tri-motors and began extending its routes to other islands in the West Indies and to Central and South America. The experience gained here, in what later became known as the “Caribbean laboratory,” aided the company in its next major venture, that of fording the mightiest and most extensive ocean of all, the Pacific.
Much of the exploratory work done by 1934 in Central and South America was carried on by Charles A. Lindbergh, who has served the company as a technical advisor and director.
By November 22, 1935, Pan Am was prepared to undertake a venture that truly changed the course of world commerce. For on that day the historic China Clipper lifted off San Francisco Bay, headed westward toward Hawaii, and then on across the Pacific. The Martin M-130 flying boat touched down at Manila Bay, its destination on that first flight, some 60 hours of flight time after its departure, making the first commercial air transport crossing of the Pacific.
Pan Am again led the way over the Atlantic, when in 1939 Capt. Harold E. Gray, who was later to become Pan Am’s chairman, piloted the first scheduled airline crossing of the Atlantic.
During World War II, Pan Am contributed a major portion
of its experience and know how in overseas operations to the war effort, while carrying on essential civil activities throughout Latin America.
The next major milestone in air transport was also introduced by Pan Am, when in 1947 the company became the first round-the-world airline.
Possibly even of greater significance was the historic introduction of economy air fare, that opened air travel to the mass market by placing the cost of overseas travel well within the means of the average person.
Then in October, 1955, Pan Am again pioneered by opting to bypass intermediate transitional aircraft and launched the air transport industry to the jet age by placing the first major order for America’s heavy duty jet transports.
Three years later that vision became reality as Pan Am introduced non-stop jet service between New York and Paris, in the first transatlantic crossing by a commercial jet aircraft.
Pan Am again led the air transport industry by placing the world’s first order for a supersonic transport, when in 1963 it ordered the Concorde, an aircraft of British-French manufacture that was scheduled for introduction to the major air routes of the world in the Seventies, while taking measures to accommodate the expanding tourist market by placing a $600 million order for 33 Boeing 747’s, thus setting the industry on a new equipment cycle and the era of wide-bodied jets.
Each of these major developments has affected the course of air transport. And Pan Am has consistently been the leader. The company has also led in developing improved communications, passenger and baggage handling procedures, advanced reservations and customer service techniques, and a broad variety of activities that combine to make Pan Am truly the World’s Most Experienced Airline.
7