Sales Management
Filling the seats and the cargo holds is what the airline business is all about. When an airliner takes off, the seats (or the cargo space) get to their destination whether they are filled or not. When they’re filled, the company makes money. When they’re not, potential revenues are lost. The job of sales management is to turn those potential dollars into real ones.
To do this requires imagination, boldness, creativity and open mindedness. For you are always trying to break new ground, always trying to further develop existing markets.
That is the task: identify new areas for sales potential and then turn that potential into reality through successful sales programs.
Sales Management is a field open to all. There is abundant opportunity for ambitious and alert trainees who work their way through the ranks, from passenger ticket and reservation agent to management level supervisor.
Positions are open at Pan Am sales offices in the United States encompassing such activities as passenger and cargo sales, administration, ticket office management, reservation supervision, advertising and sales promotion.
On-the-job training continues as a Sales Representative, guided by an experienced counterpart, makes calls upon representatives of American industry, travel agents and cargo traffic managers, and any other potential source of passengers or air cargo shipments.
A full program of career development gives a sales management trainee’ guidance and practice in oral expression, and prepares the sales manager for public appearances and speaking engagements before groups of prospective travelers, civic organizations, and other potential sources of Pan Am passenger or cargo sales.
Overseas familiarization training programs for travel agents and personnel of other airlines, sales seminars and programs for development of creative marketing techniques are a vital part of the day to day operations of a District Sales Office. Most applicants who successfully complete Pan Am Sales Management career training program are generally assigned to District Sales Offices.
11