Aircraft Maintenance
Management training programs are offered in the Aircraft Maintenance Section in the following:
The MAINTENANCE TRAINEE PROGRAM is designed to provide well-trained, able persons to fill middle and top management positions in Production, Production Control and Line Maintenance with potential for other Maintenance executive jobs. Trainees go through a rotational training program of nine to twelve months which encompasses all phases and sections of Maintenance and its supporting departments. Also included are management development courses and a tour of duty at one or more line stations.
Upon completion of the program, the trainee may be designated as a Production Foreman or be assigned to various other management positions within the Maintenance Department.
The program is open to all, though it is desirable but not required, to hold FAA Airframe and Powerplant mechanic or FCC 2nd class licenses.
The PRODUCTION TRAINEE PROGRAM covers six months in all phases and sections of Production and its supporting functions. It also includes technical training, management training and development courses, a tour of duty at a line station, and possibly a tour of duty as a mechanic at a main base.
Upon completion of the training program, the trainee is
eligible for a Production Foreman position on an aircraft service crew or in an overhaul shop at a main base.
An Associate degree in aviation or electronic technology, or in some other appropriate field of specialization, from an accredited college or university, or its equivalent in experience, is required. It is necessary prior to completion of the program to hold FAA Airframe and/or Powerplant Mechanic certificates or an FCC 2nd Class license.
The PRODUCTION CO-OP PROGRAM is open to undergraduate students pursuing a course of study leading to a Baccalaureate degree in Aeronautical, Electrical or Mechanical Engineering, Industrial Management or other fields related to aircraft maintenance, at an accredited college or university that has a cooperative program. Students in this program alternate between college study and work periods at Pan Am. The program includes management training and line station assignments.
There is no employment obligation on either side, but the Company customarily offers permanent employment as a Production Foreman or in some other Maintenance position at the management level.
Though not required, it is advantageous to hold or obtain FAA Airframe and/or Powerplant Mechanic Certificates or an FCC 2nd Class license.
19