Pursers, Stewards and Stewardesses
Now that dinner is finished, let’s go to the lounge and sit there for a while. Miss Stanley will join us, and tell us how it feels to be a Stewardess . . .
Oh, Hello, Miss Stanley. Tell us, won’t you, what is the difference between a purser and a stewardess?
MISS STANLEY: “Well, the purser is the steward or stewardess in charge.
“On some flights, we have six stewards or stewardesses in a transatlantic flight. On others, we have four, one to serve from each of the four galley units. It depends on whether or not the flight is President Special Service, Rainbow Economy Service or Thrift Service, or a combination of these services.”
“We are the flight service crew, and one of us is in charge. The senior steward, or stewardess, has that duty and is called the purser. And the purser has to keep the records, too. We have a passenger manifest showing who is aboard, and we have a chart showing where everyone is sitting. We see that you get a form to fill out for the Immigration people, that’s your landing card, and another to fill out for your customs declaration, and we help you with these forms if you want us to. We have to file reports on what happens during the flight . . .
“How did I get to be a stewardess?
“First I went to college and graduated. That’s not required, but it is required that we have either two years of college, or else two years of experience in business. We have to be twenty-one. And we have to know a foreign language — that’s a must, because we have so many passengers who do not speak English.
“There’s another requirement that isn’t so easy to define, and it has to do with personality. We don’t have to be downright beautiful, but we do have to be easy to look at, and we have to be agreeable, tactful and poised — but positive.
“Maybe we have to insist that a passenger do something he doesn’t really want to do. Maybe we want him to sit still, with his seat belt fastened, and he’d rather not sit still. We have to see that he does sit, and make him happy about it.
“I guess this is the best way to explain it: The sort of girl who would be outstanding as a hostess in her own home is likely to be an outstanding candidate for a job as a stewardess. I guess that’s why most stewardesses don’t stay with the air line for more than two or three years. The kind of girl who makes a good stewardess, is just the kind that some fellow wants to marry. And most stewardesses do get married and stop flying — except as passengers — after two or three years.
“For stewards the requirements are just about the same — except for the things I’ve been saying which apply only to girls. Stewards tend to continue on flight duty longer, making a career of it. Later on they may go on to other jobs in the company — ground jobs in the service department, or other departments.