The diagrams show how seats are arranged in pairs on either side of the aisle, or with three on each side. Further variation is possible in the fore and aft spacing of seats — in the First Class President Special type of seating they are farther from the seats in front of them than in Rainbow Economy Service.
It is this seating arrangement, plus other factors, which accounts for the difference in cost. If six persons in the economy section occupy space equivalent to that occupied by four in first class, it is obvious that each of the six can pay less individually, with the air line realizing the same amount in revenue.
However, that explanation oversimplifies the situation, since there are other factors involved, as pointed out above. There is a lounge compartment for first class passengers — generally none for economy. President Special passengers are paying for more service, and get it — in terms of meal service, beverages, and space to move around.
Operating standards, whether in flying, servicing, maintenance, assignment of crews or anything else, are identical. Obviously, they have to be the same when two classes are aboard the same aircraft. And where one class airplanes are flown — all first class or all economy — the principle still holds. Operating standards are identical. And the same care is exercised in the operation of another type of service — all-cargo flights, which carry no passengers at all.
When it comes to paying for the ticket, there is a great difference. On this flight from Paris to Beirut, for example, the first class fare is $282.80; economy class $193.20. For our flight all around the world the cost for travelling first class all the way would be $2,103.30.
The lower cost economy service makes it possible for all kinds of people to fly — vacationing families, teachers, secretaries, carpenters, bookkeepers. Mention
a profession or trade, and yon can find a representative in the passenger lists for international air travel.
The passengers with us today include such persons.
Seated near us are two nuns. They probably are going to Rome, perhaps for a visit at the headquarters of their order.
There is a group of about fifteen persons who seem to be travelling together. A good guess is that they are teachers making a Round-the-World tour. The dark-skinned, black-haired man must be Arabian, for we’ll be in the Middle East when we finish this leg of our trip. There is a whole family, Dad, Mother and children. The two young ladies could be secretaries on vacation.
They’ll all know more about the world when they’ve finished their journeys.
Things to Do
1.	From books in the library, find out more about international flight rules.
2.	By using maps and geography texts to learn about the land features, you can imagine how the countries you will fly over from Paris to Beirut will look.