after studying the weather forecast and giving consideration to other factors. During the flight the Navigator will check actual progress in several ways: (1) By dead reckoning: From time to time he’ll compute the ground speed made good by the aircraft, note on his chronometer the passage of time, and enter on his chart a mark which means “This is exactly where we are, at so many hours and minutes, according to my computation of our speed and direction, as influenced by wind direction and velocity.” (2) By electronic means: Using his electronic equipment, the Navigator can get one line on his map showing the direction from the aircraft to one radio station, then another showing the direction to another. The intersection of the two lines gives him a “radio fix”. (3) Celestial navigation: By “shooting” a star with an octant, and interpreting the celestial sight in terms of his astronomical tables, he gets a “celestial fix”. Using all these methods, the Navigator can always tell the Captain just where he is, so the latter will know what compass heading to use in order to keep on course for the remainder of the journey.
In addition, the Navigator helps to keep the How-gozit Curve. Actually a collection of curves in the mathematical sense (they look more like straight lines), the Howgozit Curve gives at any moment during the flight an opportunity for an instantaneous reading on the amount of fuel consumed in comparison with the
amount which the flight forecast predicted would be consumed. Also, it gives instantly a forecast of what the fuel situation would be if it suddenly became necessary to return to the take-off point, or to proceed to an alternate airport. In addition, it provides the same information for another contingency — if it is necessary to stop one of the engines and proceed on the power of the other three, Howgozit’s data make it possible for the Navigator to give the Captain immediately a forecast of fuel consumption for the remainder of the flight to the intended destination, back to the point of take-off, or to the alternate airport.
At frequent intervals reports are made to the Navigator on fuel consumed, and fuel remaining, for the Howgozit Curve.
Round-the-clock, round-the-year and round-the-world operation of scheduled air transport aircraft are possible in the Air Age because of the skills of people. Some of these people are members of the flight crews in the aircraft, many more are fulfilling all-important roles on the ground to provide information, control, servicing and maintenance. Others in ground jobs make reservations, sell tickets, check you in at the airport. There are executives, lawyers, engineers, accountants, clerks and specialists in such fields as advertising and public relations. And every one of these jobs is vital.