Around (ho IJamboo Curtain
On this sector of our flight around the world, and the continuation of our exploration into the operation of an air line, we are still concerned with sovereignty of air space.
“Iron Curtain” has come to mean a barrier to passage to and from the U.S.S.R. It refers to passage by any means, whether on the surface or by air, and it involves communication, too, whether by radio, telegraph, telephone or mail. The sum of all these restrictions, which are substantial, comprise the so-called “Iron Curtain”.
Some lessening of restrictions has taken place. Tourists now can go to Russia. In fact, Pan Am is already certified to establish regular American flag air service to Russia when and if negotiations between the countries are successfully completed. But restrictions still are substantial, and there still is an “Iron Curtain”.
A very similar situation exists with respect to Communist China. The restrictions add up to a “Bamboo Curtain” which is even harder to penetrate than the “Iron Curtain”. There are no landing rights for airline aircraft (or any aircraft, for that matter) from the U.S. to operate into China. So we don’t go there.
Instead, we go to Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, and from there to Hong Kong, which is not Chinese territory, but instead a Crown Colony of Great Britain. Furthermore, in flying from Bangkok to Hong Kong we must follow a course over the China Sea, and avoid passing over land controlled by Communist China.
Note that Russia and China are exercising rights to which there is no question when they decline permission for us to fly to their airports.
If you want to say that no one may enter your own home, or that only certain persons may do so,
under certain circumstances, it is your privilege to do so. Actually, you do that in effect. A visitor knocks at your door, or rings your bell, and does not enter until you invite him to do so.
Russia and Communist China sharply limit their invitations to come in. In the future of Aviation’s One World, perhaps it may be different.
Things to Do
1.	Members of your class might like to conduct a panel discussion focusing on the social and economic problems of the countries visited. The speakers could use newspapers, news magazines, library books, and geography texts for information. Your local newspapers or TV may give you other good ideas for panel discussions, such as problems about local management and improvement of airports, air traffic, safety and noise in congested areas.
2.	Make a trip to the library to select books about one of the countries you will be visiting on our Flying Clipper Round the World trip. Prepare a written or oral report telling what you learned about the countries and the people. Include in your report some ways airplanes can be used to help peoples of the world better understand each other.