the International Date Line. Then we go back to Greenwich and mark off meridians again, 15 degrees west, 30 degrees west and so on until we have proceeded half way around the world again and arrive at 180 degrees west, which is identical with 180 degrees east, and, once again, is the International Date Line.
This may be visualized as a peeled orange with 24 segments, the lines between segments corresponding to the meridians at 15 degree intervals.
Each meridian is the center line of a time zone, which extends 7 ^ degrees to either side. The difference in time is one hour from each time zone to the next. If it is noon at the Zero Meridian, then the time at 15 degrees east is plus one, or 1:00 P.M. At 15 degrees west the time is minus one, or 11:00 A.M. Proceeding around the world again until we come to 180 degrees, we find the difference is twelve hours. At 180 degrees it is midnight.
The day is considered to begin at 180 degrees — the International Date Line, and to move around the globe from east to west. So let’s go on from midnight at
the International Date Line. It’s a second past midnight and a new day is starting. With the passage of an hour, and the rotation of the earth meanwhile, it becomes a second past midnight 15 degrees to the west (at the 165° East Meridian). After two hours, midnight has moved another 15 degrees (to the 150° East Meridian). Hour by hour midnight moves around the world, after 24 hours it has reached the International Date Line again, and another day starts.
What happens to our day, then, when we arrive from Tokyo at the International Date Line and cross it on our way to Honolulu? For simplicity, let’s say we arrive at 180 degrees precisely at midnight. On the side of the International Date Line from which we are approaching, midnight means the beginning of a new day. To the east of the line, it is midnight also, but this is midnight of the day which has just completed a circuit of the whole earth — it is yesterday. So we do a quick mental switch. It’s today for us now, and the day we have just left behind us becomes tomorrow.
In practice, whatever time it may be, the day changes when we pass over the International Date Line. If we are westbound, today becomes tomorrow — we add one to the date and the first becomes the second. Proceeding eastbound, today becomes yesterday — instead of being the second day of the month, it is the first.
The explanation above is the basis for the time zones and the International Date Line. In usage, variations have been introduced for convenience. On a map of the Pacific, you will note that the International Date Line does not follow the 180th Meridian all the way, but instead bends eastward in mid-Pacific so that certain locations will have the same calendar day because they want it that way. Boundaries of certain time zones have been altered from the basic scheme for like reasons (see map), in some cases the differences in