
! m

■.

hour; range 3,200 miles. Maximum seating capacity was 41, but on long flights requiring maximum fuel load it actually carried ten to twenty.
CHINA CLIPPER — One of the famous air line aircraft of all time, it was China Clipper which pioneered over ocean scheduled air transportation.
The Martin M-130, built by the Glenn L. Martin Company had a wing span of 130 feet; weight, 26 tons; speed, 150 miles per
There were three airplanes of this type, the others, in addition to China Clipper, were Hawaii Clipper and Philippine Clipper.
China Clipper could fly from Honolulu to San Francisco, with eight or ten passengers, plus mail and cargo, in about 20 hours. Super 7 Clippers (Douglas DC7-C’s) make the flight in 8*4 hours with 75 passengers. By Jet Clipper the time is 4% hours, the passenger capacity 96 to 174 — in various services. By the end of this decade, aboard Pan Am’s new supersonic Concordes (flying at Mach 2 or 1,450 MPH, twice the speed of sound) the time will be about 2 hours. Sometime later, you may expect to ride at Mach 3 (2,200 MPH) reducing your flying time to Honolulu to about 1 hour. All this within approximately forty years.
As for our own flight from Tokyo, we’ve just about completed it now. Did you know when we left Tokyo it was 1 P.M. Tuesday? We have flown across the Pacific, and are landing at San Francisco at 7 A.M. Tuesday. By the clock and calendar that’s 6 hours before we left Tokyo. When we crossed the International Date Line, today became tomorrow. Our elapsed time Tokyo to San Francisco was 11 hours.
Landing at San Francisco International Airport completes our journey U.S. to U.S. The final leg,
Round-the-World, is a domestic air line flight across the U.S.A. to our starting point, New York City.
The route we now have completed is but one possibility for flying around the world.
For example, we might start from San Francisco, travel on the Polar Route, to London, and then continue on the route of the Aviation’s One World narrative. Or we could travel by way of Frankfurt, Germany, instead of Paris and Rome. Or we could work out a route via Mexico, Central and South America and Africa. There are at least 40 Pan Am round the world routes! These include eastbound, plus westbound routes.
Imagine: if you boarded Pan Am’s supersonic Concorde and flew westward at more than 1,000 miles an hour continuously for 24 hours . . . you would cross a time zone every hour. Hence, you’ll be turning back the clock every hour, and return to your starting point at exactly the time of your take-off!
On the same day? No, on the next day, because the date would change from today to tomorrow upon crossing the International Date Line.
29