a low circulates counter-clockwise. If our pilot planning an eastbound flight selects the area to the north of the word “high” on the map, he would be aided by a following wind. If he selected a route below the “low” areas, the counter-clockwise circulation around the “low” would also provide a following wind, so either is favorable and the decision could be based on other factors.
Fronts extend along the boundaries between air masses. Adjoining air masses are almost certain to be at different temperatures — where they come together the colder air of one mass will slide under the warmer air of the other — or warm air will climb up over the cold — or both movements will take place simultaneously. This results in varying degrees of cloudiness, turbulence (irregular movement of the air) and precipitation (rain or snow). Fronts are to be avoided by going around or over the top, and the Jet Clippers, which can go to 35,000 feet or more, if necessary, can usually avoid such turbulent air.
In addition to receiving pre-flight weather information, Clippers are in constant contact, via radio, with weather stations en route. All Clippers are radar-equipped, allowing the pilots to “see” the weather miles ahead of the flight. When a severe localized storm shows up on
the radar screen, for example, the Captain may change his route slightly to avoid the disturbance.
The up-to-the-minute wind-and-weather information Pan Am’s Meteorological Division gathers around the clock and around the world furnishes the data for plotting your flight. And it’s reassuring to know that your flight crew is in continuous two-way communication with Pan Am’s world-wide facilities on the ground.
Pan Am’s ground communications employees send or relay weather reports and other information having to do with the safe operation of the airplane.
Airline communication systems use radio, ocean cables, teletype machines, telegraph, telephones, air mail and ordinary mail. The systems used by air transportation are probably the largest and most complicated that exists for any industry.
Well, time has slipped away. Our flight is being announced on the public address system. Now we’ll go on to the gate and board our airplane.
Things to Do
1.	With the heip of encyclopedias, prepare an oral or written report about the inventors of the radio, telegraph and telephone.
2.	If you will call your airport manager he usually can arrange a trip to the weather center so that you can see some of the same reports the flight crews use.
3.	Choose a "radio announcer” in your class to give a weather report each morning. Have a "reporter” record the information on the chalkboard similar to TV reports.
4.	Join the American Meteorological Society, 3 Joy Street, Boston 8, Massachusetts, as a student member, and receive weather magazines.
5.	Bring to class weather maps from your daily newspapers. Interpret the map, wind directions, hot and cold "fronts,” and check these against the reports given by your class "radio announcer.”