Meals Aloft
President Special is the First Class service. It costs more to fly aboard The President Special because you receive more in convenience, comfort and luxury. An example is the meal service.
We are well on our way, now, at the dinner hour, on this flight across the Atlantic. We’ve been flying for an hour — there is no land in sight, we’re almost 600 miles away from New York. On the surface of the ocean below us the waves are fifteen feet high, but they don’t seem so to us. We’re miles above them, and the waves look like ripples on a pond.
Our speed is nine miles a minute, but we have no feeling of fast movement. If we look out the window, and downward, the ocean seems to be almost motionless. There is no noise, and not even very much sound, from the Clipper’s powerful engines. We are only faintly aware of the engines’ roar, because the passenger cabin walls are so thoroughly sound-proofed, and because we go so fast we fly away from the noise!
And out here among the clouds over the ocean, we’re about to enjoy a service for which Pan American is justly famous — a tempting, appetizing full course meal, served in style on spotless linen, with gleaming china, silver and glassware.
From the beginning of airline service, it was recognized that food service must be provided if passengers were flying at meal time. At first “meals” meant sandwiches and coffee, but over the years the airlines have found ways of making preparations in advance so that stewards and stewardesses can give you delicious full course hot meals.
All the makings for a full-course dinner are stowed in the Clipper’s galley before departure, methodically arranged so that the purser and stewardesses can serve a whole plane load of passengers in an hour or less.
Two huge commissaries, one at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City, the other in Paris, have been set up to prepare in advance the various elements of the delicious hot meals served on transatlantic flights for President Special and Rainbow Economy Services.
In Paris, the commissary is maintained by Maxim’s of Paris — world renowned for fine food. The commissary at Kennedy Airport is operated by the airline. The two operations are similar, being supervised jointly by Pan American and Maxim’s.
For President Special Service meals, many different entrees are available on every flight, ranging from lobster thermidor to roast beef. Most of these are completely prepared and cooked, then frozen, and held in lockers at zero temperature until time to be loaded into a Clipper galley.
11