This is a vital part of the departure pattern. Control is exercised by the tower for all aircraft and other vehicles moving on the ground within the operational area, and for all aircraft in the air leaving or approaching the airport. The controllers are employees of the F.A.A. (Federal Aviation Agency), which has responsibility for airport traffic control, also airways traffic control for aircraft flying between terminals.
The controller may give us a take-off time assignment immediately, or he may tell the Captain to stand by for clearance. When he does give clearance, he schedules the take-off at least ten minutes in advance, to give the Captain time to complete his final checkout pattern, and then taxi to position at the end of the runway.
In the passenger compartment, the signal to us that we are cleared to depart is the powerful whoosh from a jet engine under the wing. This is followed by the whoosh of a second engine, then a third and finally all four are building up power at the same time.
We don’t start immediately. First the Captain and his crew members check all the dials on the instrument panels to be sure everything is functioning correctly.
We’re moving now, which means the Captain was satisfied with his check of the instruments. We pull away from the loading apron, proceed along a taxi strip, and stop at the end of the runway.
Once again there is a pause for a final check of the instruments, and the flight could be delayed if any reading should be unsatisfactory. However, the Captain again is satisfied. The sound of our jet engines raises in volume, we start to move down the runway, slowly at first, then faster, and after a run rather longer than would be taken by the older piston engine aircraft, we rise into the air . . . We are airborne now. The airport
buildings, cars and airplanes get smaller until they look like toys.
Now we proceed on a course over the ocean, eastward, paralleling Long Island, and we continue to climb until we are flying at 35,000 feet.
Even at this altitude, the air pressure inside the cabin is set at 5,000 feet, making it comfortable for everyone.
We’re en route to Paris, on the first section of our Round the World flight.
Things to Do
1.	In how many languages can you say "hello” and "goodbye”? Ask your friends to help you.
2.	All magazines have pictures of airliners of today and tomorrow for your scrapbook.