time from adjoining zones are arbitrarily set at more or less than an hour. We have made further modifications in many areas by using Daylight Time — setting the clocks an hour ahead of Standard Time — to get the most benefit from daylight hours.
These differences have no great importance if you stay in one place all day. But if you travel, and especially if you fly, you may have to take into account the fact that the place from which you start may have a different clock time than the place to which you are going.
China Clipper’s
Triu mpli
The route from Honolulu to San Francisco was opened to scheduled air line service in November 1935 by one of the world’s famous airplanes, the China Clipper. Starting out from San Francisco to Honolulu, the Clipper then went on to complete the first scheduled air line flight across the Pacific via Midway, Wake and Guam to Manila, P.I.
The distance between Hawaii and the mainland is 2,400 miles, a long over water flight even by today’s standards, although so much a routine matter that dozens of aircraft make the journey every day.
In 1935, it was both long and formidable. It had been flown by adventurous pioneers, and it had been surveyed by a Pan American flight crew in a Sikorsky S-42 flying boat. It was easily capable of making the
28
Things to Do
1.	Draw a circle to represent your path of flight around the world. On this circle mark your home town, New York, and each landing place along the route. Use labels or pictures to indicate each of these places. Outside of this circle draw a clock face for each place indicated. On the clocks show the time at your home town and what time it would be at each place. Use the time indicator on the globe to help you.
2.	Using a globe, try counting time changes around the world moving westward from the International Date Line along the Equator and allowing one hour's change in time for each 15 degrees of longitude.
journey with a full crew .. . but had no weight to spare for payload when fully loaded with fuel.
China Clipper was the first long range airplane capable of making so long a flight with mail, passengers and cargo. The Glenn L. Martin Co. built the China Clipper, and M-130 flying boat, and two sister aircraft
—	Hawaii Clipper and Philippine Clipper.
Techniques of long-range over water flying had been developed in Pan American’s operations in the Caribbean area. Over water flights of some length were made there in regular service, and the problems of navigation, radio communication and radio direction finding were tackled there, and procedures worked out in preparation for the long flights over the Pacific.
When the time arrived on November 22, 1935 for the first scheduled flight across the Pacific from San Francisco, Postmaster General James A. Farley was on hand to give the mail bags to Captain Edwin C. Musick
—	this first flight carried mail only. Both sides of San Francisco Bay were lined with people, hundreds of thousands of them, to see China Clipper take off from the bay, head over the Golden Gate Bridge and start across the Pacific.