Your Reservation
Round. -Tli e
This is Miss Connolly, a Pan Am Sales Agent. She’s going to make your reservation.
Miss Connolly: “When do you want to leave? And what cities do you want to visit? We can give you many different routings. For the first leg of your journey, you may cross the Atlantic direct to London, or Paris — or you can go via Shannon or via San Juan — and there are choices of routes all the way around the world.
“You have an itinerary written out? Good. Now we’ll check the space you want. See this air information card? It looks like a large file card, doesn’t it? When I place it between the metal markers on the Panamac * Reservation Set, and press the correct buttons, I’m asking the computers in the Pan Am Building in New York to tell me if there is space available on First Class President Special Service to Paris. Within seconds, a light flashes on the Panamac Reservation Set giving me a complete rundown on the availability of the specific flight, date and number of seats you requested.
“Space is available, so I can book you to Paris.
“Next we’ll go from Paris to Beirut, Beirut to Karachi and so on until we have cleared space for you all around the world. After your complete itinerary has been cleared — and your specific travel arrangements
World
such as special diets, hotel and car rental reservations, etc., are listed — your ticket will be made up.
The fare for the combination of services you will be using is about $1,500. It would be less if you used low cost services all the way — more if you used President Special Service all the way.
“But now there are other things for you to do. You’ll need a passport for this trip, so you’ll have to make application for it at the Passport Office of the Department of State in Washington, or at one of its branch offices, or at your County Court House. With the application you’ll supply your birth certificate, passport pictures and ten dollars for the fee. The application will be checked in Washington, and then in about 2 or 3 weeks you’ll get your passport.
“Some of the countries you plan to visit require visas. For a visa you apply at the country’s Embassy or Ministry in Washington, or its consulate in New York or elsewhere. The visa is a rubber stamp impression on your passport which records your intention to visit the country.
“Now-Pll offer a few other suggestions. You’ll want to shop for clothes; you’ll want to know something about the customs of the countries you are to visit,