At the Airport
Ready to go? You have your passport? Ticket? You have just 44 pounds of baggage? That’s good. — On President Special Service you could take 66, but since you’ll be traveling Rainbow later on, it’s best to start off this way — so you won’t be paying for excess baggage.
Put your bags on the scale and hand your ticket and passport to Mr. Trafford, the Traffic Agent.
MR. TRAFFORD: “Hello, there - “Passport OK. And ticket OK. I’ll put tags on your baggage and here are your baggage checks.
“Where do you want to sit?
“We assign the seats and attach a tag to your ticket showing your seat number. There you are — seat 4A, and that’s a window seat, so you can see very well.
“That’s all. Your flight is 114 departing at 1930, which is 7:30 p.m. You’ll board about 7:00 p.m.
“You have plenty of time. Want to look around the airport?”
Good, let’s tour the airport now.
The John F. Kennedy International Airport (formerly Idlewild) is one of the biggest in the world; its runways are each about two miles long. The drive from the Belt Parkway up the roadway to the Pan Am Terminal takes about five minutes.
The Pan Am Terminal is capable of handling eight fully loaded 120 passenger Jet Clippers every hour. This modern terminal does not have a front door. You enter through an 89 foot by 10 foot curtain of air — the world’s largest — that gently moves enough air in one hour to ventilate 6,000 five room houses.
Inside there’s a gift shop, a luxury restaurant, coffee shop and snack bar, a bank . . . and even a Pan Am Air Museum with many airplane models, historic flight logs, trophies and other reminders of Pan Am’s pioneering history.
At the International Arrivals Building, about 7 minutes from the Pan Am Terminal, there are customs and immigration offices. You’ll also see big hangars which provide for servicing of a hundred or more aircraft at one time.
At the Cargo Terminal, right now a giant Pan Am All Cargo Jet Freighter is taking aboard a load of cargo, some of which will be delivered as far away as India.