
LATIN AMERICA
THE WEST INDIES and BERMUDA
<< IATIN” America is the name applied to that vast portion of the earth’s land area lying south and east of the ■—United States of America. It includes Mexico, the Caribbean countries, Central and South America.
From north to south Latin America covers more than half the distance from pole to pole and has approximately the same population as the United States of America.
The air traveler, speeding over the inter-American and intra-American routes of Pan American World Airways System, can see spread out below him the whole panorama of the past, present and indications of the fu-
ture of these lands. These are the lands of romance, where flashing eyes and twinkling toes keep time to scintillating rhythms.
Travelers can fly high above the Andes range, longest and highest in the world, that runs like a mighty backbone from top to toe of South America. They can explore in arm-chair comfort the green vastness of the Amazon, in volume the largest river in the world. They can "do” the big cities — mingle with the Cariocas of romantic Rio de Janeiro, "Paris of the New World,” tour bustling Buenos Aires, Latin America’s largest city, see the ancient and
modern side by side in glamorous Mexico City, or watch the expansion of Sao Paulo, "world’s fastest-growing city.”
If their adventurous tastes run off the beaten path they can, for example, visit timeless Taxco, an exquisite, unspoiled bit of Old Spain, transplanted to Mexico, or explore the mysterious, starkly-beautiful ruined temples of the Mayas in Yucatan. It is possible via Flying Clipper to leave the United States of America one day, connect with Pan American-Grace Airways at the Canal Zone and next day be in Peru, to see the Peruvian fortresses of the once-mighty Inca empire, with Chile — land of emerald lakes and shimmering nitrate-rich deserts — just beyond. Or, heading eastward, they can wing over the pearl-like stepping stones of the Caribbean islands, where Columbus’s caravels rode the waves and where, on moonlit nights, they say, walk the ghosts of Drake, Morgan and Captain Kidd.
Latin America had been touched by European explorers and treasure-seekers at several points before St. Augustine, oldest European settlement in the United States, was founded (in 1565). Much of Latin America had colonies nearly a century before the first permanent English settlers landed at Plymouth Rock in 1620. And the struggles for independence led by Bolivar, O’Higgins, Hidalgo, San Martin, Toussaint l’Ouverture and others followed by only a few years the American Revolution.
The six republics of Central America — Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama — are busy garden lands, with picturesque volcanoes, shimmering lakes, and a wealth of natural products.
Flying over Panama, one can see the spot from which Balboa first viewed the Pacific, while far ahead is a glimpse of the Andes. From the altitude of the Flying Clippers, one can see both the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans at the
Portrayed on “picture-map'		are
Inca fortress	Panama Canal	Copacabana Beach,
Aztec calendar	Llamas	Bio de Janeiro
Pizarra	Boliver	Pish catch
Cortez	O’Higgins	New oil fields
Columbus	Sucre	Christ of the Andes
Lands of song	Santos Dumont	Picking coffee berries
Cathedral, Mexico City	Drying cinchona bark	Rubber and nuts, Amazon
Havana	Opera House, Manaos,	Tango
Morro Castle, Havana	Brazil	Literature
Bermuda’s favorite sport	Wheat and cotton	Wine grapes
Parliament of Bermuda	Indians of the Andes	Ranches
Mayan ruins, Yucatan	Copper mine	Banana harvest
Plaza de la Independencia,	Statue of President Mitre,	Business street,
Quito	Buenos Aires	Buenos Aires
Hat-weaving	Harvesting sugar cane	Skyscraper in Buenos Aires
Fairyland of Rio Harbor af night
same time. Far below is the Panama Canal, a monument to Man’s perseverance to achieve the important goal of providing a waterway between two oceans.
Oil WELLS ON STILTS • Venezuela’s Lake Maracaibo has acres of oil wells on "stilts” stretching for miles over the water, busy day and night pumping "liquid gold.”
In Colombia, named by early explorers "El Dorado” (the Gilded Man), are millions of coffee trees, platinum, gold.
Here, air travelers can hop in a matter of hours from the Caribbean walled seaport of Barranquilla to lovely Bogota, nestled in the shadow of the Andes, or to Medellin, humming industrial center of this Crossroads of the Western World. Lovely orchids to thrill the heart of any lady are figuratively "a dime a dozen” in Colombian markets.
Continuing down the West Coast of South America via Pan American-Grace Airways (an associate of Pan American World Airways) you may stop at Quito, oldest capital city in the New World, almost directly on the Equator, where days and nights are always the same length. You can set your watch by the sunrise, always at 6 A.M.
In Ecuador there is the strange sight and aroma of cocoa beans spread out to dry on the sun-drenched streets and the making of "Panama” hats in the Ecuadorian uplands.
Peru, next, has 21,000 towering peaks of the Andes. The dignity of the ages of vanished empires forms a backdrop for the most modern of city thoroughfares and buildings. Chile (as long as the United States is wide) is the home of the gay and legendary huasos (cowboys), some of the finest wines ever made, and the capital city of Santiago, a bit of Old Madrid transplanted.
One of the greatest travel thrills ever experienced is to fly from Chile to Argentina across the top of the Andes, with snow-covered peaks below you and the endless pampas of Argentina stretching out before you. This is one of the highest aerial routes in the world. Midway in the crossing is the statue of Christ of the Andes, symbol of friendship.
As you soar over the vast pampas you may notice below you herds of thousands of cattle, fattening on the rich green grasses, tended by the gauchos (cowboys).
Copyright 1946, Pan American Airways, Inc.
The Zocalo Square, in the	Stately Capitol, Havana, Cuba
heart of Mexico City
THE WEST INDIES
From the air, the islands of the West Indies look like spots of green velvet on which the deep blue Caribbean breaks in waves of white foam. Here are wide beaches, including delightful Varadero and famous Montego Bay.
In Haiti, where they tell of muffled jungle drums throbbing in weird voodoo rituals, one can climb the jungle heights to gaze in awe at the crumbling ruins of Emperor Christophe’s once-impregnable mountain fortress. Cuba’s rhythmic pattern of tobacco and sugar-cane fields looks like a giant checkerboard, when viewed from the air. Cuba’s capital, Havana, is noted for its carefree nightlife.
Visitors to Puerto Rico can see this most-important Latin American dependency of the United States, with fertile soil intensively cultivated for the raising of export crops of sugar, fruits, coffee and tobacco — the last grown under great expanses of white cheesecloth.
Jamaica in the 1780’s was one of the richest of Great Britain’s colonial possessions. Today it offers travelers a
Buenos Aires, great metropolis on the Rio de la Plata, storied "River of Silver,” is the port through which passes much of the great trade with the United States and the British Isles. It is a city of wide boulevards, more than 100 great parks, stately plazas, and magnificent buildings. Here are night clubs and other places of entertainment unusual enough to thrill the truest Parisian.
The possibilities for discovering new thrills in Latin America are almost endless. On Lake Titicaca, highest navigable lake in the world, tourists can ride in native Indian reed boats like those the first dwellers of the area used centuries ago for fishing. Nearby is La Paz, capital of Bolivia, a "city in the clouds,” highest big city in the world.
Via Pan American World Airways System routes travelers can land almost within sight of mighty Iguassu Falls, on the Brazil-Argentina border.
Fertile Paraguay, although land-locked, has in its capital city of Asuncion a major port, 1,000 miles from the sea. Busy and progressive Uruguay is the smallest but most-densely populated independent nation in South America.
Completing the aerial circuit of South America, Flying Clipper travelers can experience all the delights of Brazil, larger than the continental United States, dream to the scent of bougainvilleas in Rio and melt into the carefree abandon of carnival-time.