PANAMA
On the Atlantic side, there are the twin cities of Cristobal and Colón. Cristobal is in the Canal Zone and Colón is in the Republic of Panamá. Cristobal is primarily a port city full of the colorful mixture of sailors of the nations of the world. Colón is a very cosmopolitan city. The night life is very gay. Try to visit the famous Strangers Club. Marvelous food can be had ^ the excellent Hotel Washington, run by the Govern-mer t. Bilgray’s Tropic or the Monaco Gardens are both good for eating and having a good time.
Portobelo . . . About 20 miles from Colón, Portobelo, the old fortress city, is an important sight to see. The "King’s Treasures,” gathered from Peru and Colombia, were stored here. The fort was used to ward off the attacks of the pirates in the early days of Spanish conquest. There are daily tours through these interesting historical ruins.
Tobago . . . The island of Flowers is one of the loveliest' resorts in Panamanian waters. It is a small island situated in the Panamá Bay. The town is historically interesting as one of the earliest settlements on the Isthmus. The fishing and swimming here are very fine. The new modern Hotel Tobago offers cool and pleasant accommodations at reasonable prices. There is a quaint native village a few minutes’ walk from the hotel. Tobago can be reached by launch from Panamá City.
The Chiriqui Highlands . . . Chiriqui Province, bordering on the Republic of Costa Rica, is the coffee and sugar district of Panamá. There’s good hunting for wild game. Trout fishing in the streams of 11,000-foot El Volcan is the very best. There are guides and accommodations available at reasonable prices. Go by air, stay at the Nacional in David, the capital of the Province, or at the Hotel Panamonte at Boquete in the mountains overlooking David.
The San Bias Islands ... are a group of islands off the Atlantic coast where the colorful Cuna Indians live. The blue of th ■ "ea and the vivid costumes are a fantasy in colors. Indian wc n wear earrings and nose rings. Go by boat or plane.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION . . . There is a