PANAMA
Church of San José with its famous Altar of Gold, saved from the original church in Old Panama City.
The native market place is bustling and colorful. Here, native fishing boats bring their daily catch to be sold. See also the Presidencia, home of Panamá’s presidents. The gardens are very lovely and beautiful plumed egrets wander through them. Bolivar Plaza contains a handsome monument of Simón Bolívar, one of Latin America’s greatest heroes. Walking along Las Bovedades Promenade you’ll have a glorious view of the Bay of Panamá. The Palace of Justice, a fine example of Spanish colonial architecture, faces the Promenade. The Church of Santo Domingo on Calle 3A has the famous Flat Arch.
The King’s Bridge is the first thing to see in Old Panamá. It marks the boundary of the old city. The best place to start your tour of the ruins is the plaza in front of the old cathedral. Stone pillars mark the site of the first administration building. Going toward the sea you will come to the great arch that was part of the original San José Church that housed the Golden Altar. Nearby are the ancient dungeons and a stone font that was used to baptize slaves. Driving back from the ruins of Old Panamá, go through La Cresta; it is the fashionable residential section, full of fine homes and lovely gardens. The view of Panamá City and the harbor from La Cresta Hill is breathtaking.
Colón and the Canal Zone . . . No one going to Panamá should miss seeing the Canal Zone and the Panamá Canal. One is able to watch the giant locks in action and the entire engineering masterpiece perform. Coming from Panamá City, you first reach the town of Balboa, headquarters of the Zone. The Administration Building has interesting murals depicting the history of the canal. The Orchid Gardens in Balboa are breath-takingly lovely. Ancon is the residential district.
An inexpensive way to see the Canal is to take a trip by the Panama Railroad across the Isthmus of Panamá. The rail route runs closely parallel with the canal and is an excellent way tc _ee the locks. Trip takes about IV2 hours.