PANAMA
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are cabs and cars for hire in Panamá City and other large towns at reasonable rates. Good transportation facilities are available throughout the Republic. Panamá is laced with a network of small airfields and air travel is quite moderate. There are also bus and railway systems. For further information, ask at your hotel.
WATER . . . The water is uniformly excellent in all but the most primitive villages. Water bottles and chlorine tablets should be part of your hunting equipment.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Panamá hats are good. Leather goods, especially alligator skins, are another top buy. French perfume, English and Swedish china, Peruvian silver, Colombian emeralds, textiles of all kinds. Chinese silks and rugs, English woolens and cashmeres. Italian and Irish linens ate all good buys. You may have "liquor in bond” delivered to your plane tax free. The cities of Panamá and Colón are very fine shopping centers. Amazing bargains can be had on some products. Goods from all over the world pour into this little crossroads country.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Lightweight comfortable clothes are essential in Panamá. Cool cotton and linen clothes during the day and lightweight black at night for women. Linen and seersucker suits for men. Formal clothes are worn for evening in the more lavish night spots. Have them cool and colorful. White jackets for men. It is advisable to bring along a lightweight raincoat. The nights are cooler in the mountains and you will need a lightweight topcoat. Cool but durable clothes for sports.
WHERE TO GO - SIGHTSEEING
Panamá City . . . Panamá City, like the entire Republic, is an interesting mixture of old Spanish culture and Western Hemisphere civilization with overtones of Indian culture. The city is divided into three parts: the present city; Old Panamá (destro ed by the famous pirate, Morgan, in 1671) ; and the beautiful residential sections. Your sightseeing trips in Panamá City should include the San Francisco and the Cathedral, the largest churches in Panamá City, facing on the Plaza Catedral, and the