PANAMA
FLORA . . . The rich tropical vegetation and bizarre flowers of Panamá are often breath-taking in their beauty. Orchids grow in profusion all over the countryside. The majestic palms are everywhere, especially along the superb beaches. If you go up into the highlands you’ll see the huge coffee plantations of Panamá’s large coffee industry. The entire Panamanian landscape is a riot of colorful beauty. State flower "Flor del Espiretu,’’ a white orchid.
FOOD . . . There is some very fine eating to -be done in Panamá. You’ll often begin a meal with delicious sancocho, a light chicken soup made with native vegetables. The natives boast that the Panamanian Tamale is the best in Central America. Empanadas, a spicy casserole dish made of pork, beef and chicken, served over rice, is a typical native entree. Bollos de murva y coco is a delicacy made of fresh corn and coconut wrapped in banana leaves and baked. Arroz con polio, rice with chicken, a universal dish in Latin America, is especially good in the Panamanian manner. There is good American cookery in Panamá, too. Some French cuisine with Spanish overtones. Meals are about the same price as in the States.
GAMBLING . . . The National Lottery is universally popular. Drawings take place every Sunday at 11:00 a.m. The new, modern and luxurious racetrack Presidente Remon was inaugurated July, 1956. There is horse-racing with pari-mutuels every Saturday, Sunday and holiday. And on the Hotel El Panamá’s roof, there is a Casino operated by the Panamanian Government. Open every night from 8:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m.
LANGUAGE . . . Spanish is the official language but almost everybody speaks English too.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Fast 24-hour service is available in most hotels and in several dry cleaning establishments.
LIQUOR ... A small amount of liquor for personal use may be brought through customs duty-free. All the regular brands of whiskey and liquor are available in Panamá at prices lower than in the States. Rum is popular here. Beer is the .most popu-