you wish to pay. Lunch is a two to three-hour affair involving several courses. The cheese is wonderful, hors d’oeuvres are usually superb, sauces are a national specialty, pâté de foie gras is different from anything you’ve had in tins. Coffee is strong but can be ordered to approximate the American taste. Try purée de marrons, chestnuts cooked with celery, spices and chicken consommé. Wonderful snails in garlic sauce and saddle of spring lamb done in white wine with chopped tarragon. There are hundreds of other magnificent dishes and regional favorites. The wines range from ordinary to superlative, depending upon price and taste. They are served with all meals. The French rarely drink water, but it is entirely potable. Pastries are famous, as are the potages, or thick soups. The French also do well by fish and salads. Milk is usually safe to drink, but make sure it’s been pasteurized.
GAMBLING ... Around Paris mere is horse racing at Auteuil, Chantilly, Longchamp, St. Cloud, Vincennes and other nearby spots. The National Lottery has drawings every Wednesday. Nearest gambling casino in Enghien, 10 miles from Paris. Along the Riviera, and at Deauville, of course, the casinos are famous.
LANGUAGE ., . After two wars shared by the French with G.I.’s and “Tommies,” almost every Frenchman not only can understand English but can now even understand an American trying to speak French.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Laundry is touch and go. In some hotels it’s fine, in others it’s very bad. In large hotels you can get your clothes cleaned in 48 hours.
LIQUOR . . . French wines, champagnes and brandies have no peer in the world. Liquor is now taxed in France, so drinks run higher than they used to. Whisky is rather expensive. Brandy is really the national drink, but you can name your brand only in the best restaurants. But even the “bar brandy” in other spots is better than you often get at home. Vouvray and Mousseux are similar to Champagne, but cheaper. The Champagne name, of course, is patented and is applied only to wines from a certain district, just as Cognac applies only to the Cognac district. Best try a few wines and brandies and liqueurs for yourself and make up your own mind.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • The American Hospital at Neuilly is the favorite of Americans. But there are many English-speaking doctors. Ask at your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES • • • There are many cinema houses in Paris, many of them showing the same features you have seen or will see at home. The French movie industry is going strong and many French pictures are magnificent. Most Hollywood movies have French subtitles.
MUSIC . . . The Opéra, of course, is of great importance in Paris. Some of the world’s greatest composers and conductors are French, so there is good music to be heard all the time. Good music can also be heard in celebrated concert halls such as: Salle Gaveau, Salle Pleyel and Palais de Chaillot.