baths. There are dozens of hotels, best of which are the Pyrénées Palace and the Sacaron. Skiing is excellent on Superbagnères, a 6,000-foot peak with a wonderful hotel at its summit.
The Riviera . . . Here is France’s playground, the famous Côte d’Azur. The French Riviera stretches from Toulon to the Italian border and is dotted with famous spots: Nice, Cannes, Menton, Beaulieu, Cap d’Antibes, luan-les-Pins, St.-Tropez, Eden Roc and of course, Monte Carlo in the principality of Monaco.
Nice is the largest of the Riviera resorts. It has the Promenade des Anglais, a famous pre-Lenten Carnival, some fine hotels: the Negresco, the Angleterre, the Royal, the Ruhl, the Plaza, the Mondial. Not so large, but smarter and more frequented by the International set is Cannes, where Prince A1 i Khan lives in the fantastic villa formerly occupied by Maxine Elliott. There are wonderful hotels, luxurious branches of Paris shops, wonderful beaches and two casinos. The beach boulevard La Croisette has the Carlton, the Martinez (the largest hotel on the Riviera), the Majestic and others. There are at least 35 hotels in the town. Between Cannes and Nice is the Cap d’Antibes, which has the famous Hotel du Cap and the Eden Roc, with its famous pool and restaurant.
There are, however, less swank and equally beautiful resorts along the Riviera, St.-Tropez, Juan-les-Pins, St. Raphael, all with wonderful beaches, many with fine hotels and small pensions. Many hotels reduce rates as much as 20 per cent in winter for American tourists.
From Nice three roads lead to Monte Carlo and the Italian frontier. They are the Basse (low) Corniche, Moyenne (middle) Corniche, and Grande (high) Corniche. Each one runs on a different level out into the hills. From each you get that famous view of the Riviera.
At Monte Carlo there is the Casino, the most famous in the world. This is an enormous ornate building, marbled and mirrored with crystal chandeliers everywhere you turn. There are several hotels at Monte Carlo, most famous of which is the Hotel de Paris. There are the Métropole, the Hermitage, the Mirabeau, any of which is first rate. Along the entire Riviera there is wonderful golf, fishing, swimming and boating. It is a yachtsman’s paradise, but it is fun for small boatsmen, too; there are water skiing and underwater fishing. In the winter there is skiing about 25 miles inland from the beaches. There are fine restaurants along the Riviera. Là Bonne Auberge, La Réserve de Beaulieu and Château de Madrid (on Middle Corniche) are the best restaurants on the coast. Da Bouttau in the old town of Nice (with a branch in Cannes) is an amusing restaurant for local and regional dishes. The Restaurant de !’Armorial at La Napoule is really superb and relatively inexpensive, as is the Château de la Chèvre d’Or (with a splendid view) in Eze Village.
If you don’t want a swank resort, some of the smaller fishing villages offer pensions and small hotels at reasonable rates: St.-Tropez, Villefranche, Cap Ferrât, Cap d’Ail, for instance. The Riviera is both a summer and winter resort these days. But the winter weather is not so warm as Florida. More like Southern California.