CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO ■ • • American cigarettes cost about $5 a carton. So take in as many as you are allowed and hang on to them.
CLIMATE • • • It never gets either very cold or very hot in Paris, although there are some exceptional days each season. Paris is interesting to visit in all seasons, but particularly so in winter and spring.
CLUBS ... In Paris: Jockey Club (very aristocratic club—it is very difficult to be admitted), International Club, Racing Club de France, Touring Club, Rotary Club, Lions International. Foreign members are admitted.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . You
may find a number of customs in France new to you. Tickets are collected when you leave trains. All apartment houses have concierges who guard the door. Doors are locked at early hours each night. In small buildings the elevator will take you up but you are expected to walk down. It is customary to shake hands when you meet someone and when you say good-bye.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Excellent long-distance telephone and cable service. Local phone service is only adequate. The pneumatique is an inter-postoffice tube system which delivers a letter in about an hour, much faster than special delivery. Airmail to the United States costs 53 francs.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the franc, worth about 350 to the dollar at official exchange rate.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ...You may bring in 1,000 cigarettes, 250 cigars or 4 pounds of tobacco in your luggage, 2 bottles of liquor with seal broken, 2 pounds of any food stuffs, nylons and clothing for personal use. You need a passport but no visa unless you plan to stay more than three months. You will need a vaccination certificate to get back home.
One still camera and one movie camera with 20 rolls of color film or 10 rolls of black and white for each camera may be brought in. 20,000 francs may be taken out.
DRUG STORES . . . There are many drug stores in Paris and several with English-speaking clerks which make a specialty of American trade.
ELECTRIC CURRENT . . . United States electrical appliances can be used in France merely by buying locally a converting plug. This plug fits into the European-type electrical outlets and the United States-type cords can be plugged into the converter.
FAUNA ... In Paris, mostly poodles and sparrows.
FLORA ... In northern and central France, a wide variety of attractive wild flowers. In the south you will see vines, mimosa, orange trees and graceful Cyprus.
FOOD . . . This is a volume in itself. French food is famous everywhere and Paris has some of the best restaurants in the world. You can find anything you want to eat in Paris at almost any price