NIGHT (CLUBS AND CABARETS... Like food this would take a book in itself. But in Paris take a look at the Lido on the Champs Elysées, one of the most famous anywhere. There are floor shows. At most night clubs there will be a bucket of champagne on your table whether you order it or not. It is the equivalent of our cover charge, only more expensive. Look in at Au Lapin Agile in Montmartre, a spot with atmosphere. Drop in at Scheherazade, Novy, and Dinarzade. All famous, all good. For big brassiness visit Casino de Paris. For formal elegance go to Maxim’s, where on Fridays you must dress for dinner. Maxim’s also offers piano and guitar in its informal and luxurious Midnight Room for after-dinner clientele. Monseigneur Le Drap d’Or, Jimmy’s and l’Eléphant Blanc are elegant too. The Nouvelle Eve and Moulin Rouge are extremely popular and have floor shows. If you want to get real low-down, there is always the Place Pigalle in Montmartre with its many, many clubs of varying repute. If you hanker after a glimpse of the Existentialists, your best bet is the Café de Flore in St. Germain des Prés. Other spots where the prophets of this philosophy may be found are Club St. Germain, Le Vieux-Colombier. There’s a night-club tour available from hotels.
PHOTOGRAPHY... Black-and-white and color still and movie films are available in Paris and other big cities; so are cameras. But prices are considerably higher than in the United States. Paris, of course, is the amateur photographer’s paradise, with scores of world-renowned buildings and monuments, and a maze of colorful, picturesque streets.
RELIGION. . . France is a Catholic country and there are many magnificent Cathedrals which hold Mass. There are also many Protestant churches; American Church, British Embassy Church, Presbyterian Church, Eglise de L’Etoile; Eglise de Passy, Eglise du Saint Esprit, Eglise de la Mission Etrangère, Methodist Church, Quakers, Russian Orthodox Church, Grande Synagogue.
RESTAURANTS. . . It is always possible to find a good little out-of-the-way spot undiscovered by tourists which has magnificent food and cheap prices. However, here are some of the better known in Paris: Maxim’s (who is now preparing the meals for Pan American’s crack Clipper flights between New York and Europe), Lapérouse, La Tour d’Argent; others such as La Crémaillère, Lasserre, Cabaret, Laurent, Drouant, are also very good. Food at the Plaza Athenée is excellent. Chez Doucet is a chain that is well known and one of the less expensive. For homesick Americans there are three Pam-Pam, which serve a club breakfast, American coffee and cheeseburgers. Prunier and Méditerranée specialize in seafood. Pavillion d’Armenon-ville, Pré Catelan in the Bois de Boulogne have good food and delightful surroundings. Over on the left bank there are La Coupole and Le Dôme, both cafés beloved in the twenties and still doing business. Harry’s New York Bar, famous among generations of Americans, is still at 5 Rue Daunou. The Ritz Bar is still the favorite meeting place of Americans. Montmartre is as cluttered with bars as New York’s