gets a tip in addition to your regular waiter. The concierge should be tipped, too.
TOURIST TAXES ...Port taxes of $6.50 1st class, $4.50 2nd class and $3 tourist class collected at all seaports.
TRANSPORTATION ...There are plenty of taxis but somehow they are not always easy to get. They are qifite'cheap, howbvèk. It is advisable always to notice whether the taxi you hire has a meter Unmetered cabs often charge exhorbitant rates. It is wise to keep your cab waiting if you are shopping. Between twelve and two drivers won’t take you anywhere except in the direction they are going. They are usually going to lunch. Taxi drivers are as volatile and excitable as ever and cabs are just as aged.
After 11:00 p.m. rates are doubled. Consult your driver before you go anywhere, because at night clubs and theaters fixed-rate cabs are waiting. There are stands for cars for hire near most of the hotels. These are more expensive than ordinary cabs. Travel by Metro (subway) at least once. It runs from 6:00 a.m. to 12:45 a.m., and it is- unlike any subway you have known. There are buses all over Paris running from 6:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. You must queue up for these and there are pads of numbers on posts near bus stops which you take, thus giving yourself an assüfed pla&e in'the line.
WATER . . . It’s safe to drink, usually. There are plenty of bottled waters, Perrier, Evian and Vittel, that are good and cheap.
WHAT TO BUY • . . Clothes, of course, from one of the great designers, if you can afford them. Paris hats are like no other hats anywhere. Lingerie, blouses, gloves, laces, china, LaTique' glass, Cognac and Champagne are all cheaper than at home. Much cheaper. Made-to-order girdles are wonderful. Perfumes are amazingly inexpensive, for there is no middleman. Prices are standard in all stores. Umbrellas are beautiful. Costume jewelry is low priced, too. If you want the very latest, don’t buy dresses anywhere but at top shops or couturiers. Fashions have a two-year patent in ParisTSh'oes arë not a good buy; they are apt not to be right for American feet. Furs are better at home. Hermès' engagement and address book is a standard French gift for a man, and very swank. Bags are excellent in Paris. For men there are hand-rolled handkerchiefs, lisle socks, ties, wallets.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Your newest, smartest clothes. The sort of thing you would weai in any large city at home. Don’t wear white shoes on the street. You’ll need a raincoat, a suit, walking shoes, evening clothes if you plan any gala night life. Men should dress as in any city. Dinner jacket is a necessity for a man. If ydu go to the Riviera, take your newest sports clothes, evening clothes .and a fur jacket, beach clothes. Men need slacks, sport shirts, bathing trunks and robes. For skiing what you would wear at a good resort at home, or huy your ski things abroad.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . ..
Paris . . . There are various ways to see Paris. You can do it on your own and discover things or you can go on a guided tour