lected by all citizens of France, with participation of some of the French overseas territories.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, direct to Paris 11 Vi hours (elapsed time) from New York. Through-plane service to Nice on the Riviera via Lisbon, about 19 Vi hours from New York, 19 hours from Boston. Connections at Lisbon for Paris (4 hours). By ship, 5 to 9 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS. . . There are countless hotels and pensions in Paris. You can find anything you want at any price. In the de luxe group are: the Ritz, Plaza Athenée, George V, Meurice, Crillon, Prince de Galles, Royal Monçeau, Raphael, and Bristol. Slightly less luxurious but very good are the Claridge, Vendôme, Continental, Westminster, Napoléon-Bonaparte, California, Bellman, and others. Rates at official exchange run from about $10 a day and up single with no bath (no meals) at the top hotels. About $5 or $6 in the less swank group, and so on down from there. In the center of Paris, for businessmen, there are the Scribe and the Ambassador. Rates at official exchange run from about $8 a day up. Hotel space is hard to find in Paris from Easter until the end of October. This is the “on season” when the capital is thronged with visitors and prices rise accordingly. From December 20 to March 1 most hotels in Paris and on the Riviera reduce prices as much as 20 per cent.
ARTS. . . Paris is the city for the art lover, the museum goer. Begin with the Louvre, of course. See the Venus de Milo, the Mona Lisa, the Winged Victory. Visit the Musée d’Art Moderne, the Rodin Museum, the Musée de l’Homme, the Jeu de Paume (impressionist painters), the Palais de Chaillot, Cluny, with sculptures and exhibits of the Middle Ages, L’Ecole des Beaux Arts, Gobelins for tapestries, Musée de l’Armée for arms and armor. Museums are closed on Tuesdays.
BALLET. . . The famed Paris Opera Ballet performs at the Opéra in winter. Les Ballets de Paris, less classic but very good.
BANKS... In Paris, National City Bank, 52 Avenue des Champs Elysées (Sème Arrt.), Tel. ELYsées 4542; American Express Co., 11 Rue Scribe (9ème Arrt.), Tel. OPEra 4290; Barclays Bank, Ltd., 33 Rue du 4 Septembre (2ème Arrt.), Tel. OPEra 4240; the Chase Bank, 39 Rue Cambon (1er Arrt.), Tel. OPEra 4430; Guaranty Trust of New York, 4 Place de la Concorde (8ème Arrt.), Tel. ANJou 1850; Morgan and Co., 14 Place Vendôme, Tel. OPEra 2420; Royal Bank of Canada, 3 Rue Scribe (9ème Arrt.), Tel. OPEra 0982; Thos. Cook & Son is at 2 Place de la Madeleine and 14 Boulevard des Capucines.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . New Year’s Day; Easter and Easter Monday; May 1, May Day; May 8, V-Day; Ascension Day, 40 days after Easter; Whitsunday (Pentecost) 10 days later and following Monday; July 14, Bastille Day; August 15, Assumption; November 1, All Saints; November 11, Armistice Day; Christmas Day.