The Château Country .. . No visit to France is really complete without a trip through the Château country, the center of which is Tours. The Hotel Univers or the Métropole are both good here. Make this city your headquartèrs and then take any of the standard trips to Blois, Amboise, Chaumont, Chenonceaux, Chambord, Loches, Luynes, Langeais, Villandry, Azay-le-Rideau, Chinon. During summer months Sound and Light Spectacles are given every night in most of these châteaux similar to those in Versailles. Night trips can be arranged from Paris or from Tours. Some of the châteaux are furnished in magnificent style; some are in ruins; others are visited for their architectural interest. Azay-le-Rideau contains a kitchen which is a rarity. It has, too, a Fontainebleau tapestry ordered by Charles I for the city of Rome. Villandry is famous for its Spanish Museum, its beautiful gardens. Chenonceaux is one of the most famous and is the castle given to Diane de Poitiers by Henry II. The gardens were ruined in 1944 by bombings but the château was unharmed.
Blois contains an ornate staircase in its inner court. Here, too, is the death chamber of Catherine de Médicis and her private chapel. Amboise is furnished with period pieces, Aubusson tapestries; there is an interesting collection of fifteenth- and sixteenth-century armors in the guardroom. Chambord is an enormous place with 365 rooms. There are innumerable turrets and spires, a wall surrounding the gardens and an estate which is the largest in France.
Visit Vouvray while in Tours. Here is where some of the finest wines in the world are made. Visit the vineyards with their acres and acres of grapes. While in Tours take a run down the Cognac country, if you are a brandy fancier. Here is the world-famous center for the Cognac which takes its name from the city and the region. A little farther on is Bordeaux, which is as famous for its wines as Cognac is for its brandy.
Pyrenees—Basque Region ... In Southwest France the Pyrenees stretch from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean in a natural boundary line between France and Spain. On the coast of the Bay of Biscay is Biarritz, a famous beach resort made fashionable by the Empress Eugénie. There are luxurious hotels, a casino, excellent restaurants and a wonderful beach nearby. Not quite so fashionable but smart in its way is St.-)ean-de-Luz which is less expensive. Biarritz is expensive, about $25 per day American Plan, if it’s the de luxe you want. There are also moderately priced accommodations. Pelota is a favorite local sport; or you can see a bullfight at Bayonne, nearby.
If you are heading eastward to the Mediterranean, you will go to Lourdes, home of the famous vision of Bernadette. There are many hotels and pensions here. The grotto is a national shrine and the Cathedral is composed of three churches, built one above the other with hundreds of memorial chapels donated by pilgrims to the shrine. The baths are nearby where each year thousands of afflicted come to bathe in the holy waters. It is estimated that more than a million people make the pilgrimage to Lourdes each year. Luchon in the Pyrenees looks into Spain. It has excellent ski runs and thermal