Fifty-Second Street. Some are clip joints; some are not. Use your head. Chez Taillevent is a fine restaurant there. Go to the Café de la Paix, of course. There are sidewalk cafés everywhere you turn where it is possible to sit for hours drinking very little or letting the saucers pile up.
SHOPS AND STORES. .. A ux Trois Quartiers is one of the best department stores in Paris. There are also Au Printemps, Galeries Lafayette and Samaritaine de Luxe. For linens there is Grande Maison de Blanc. The shops on the Rue de la Paix are magnificent. The Rue Royale and Avenue Matignon have the smartest specialty shops. And now the big couturiers have opened what they call “boutiques” in which ready-to-wear merchandise and accessories are offered at far lower prices than in the custom salons. The Bon Marché, the Frenchman’s Macy’s, is on the left bank. Don’t miss the Marché aux Puces, the famous Flea Market of Paris, reached by Metro to the Porte of Clignancourt, above Montmartre. It’s open every Saturday through Monday.
The better shops and especially big stores (also hairdressers) are closed Mondays. Some shops close during August when many Parisians take their vacation.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Horse racing goes on almost all year at one track or another near Paris. Soccer is popular at the Parc des Princes and at Colombes Stadium. Tennis tournaments and championship matches take place at Club Roland-Garros in the Bois. Boxing matches are frequent. Basketball games during the winter.
SPORTS. . . Cycling is a favorite sport around Paris. There is a fine golf course at St. Cloud (card necessary), also at St. Germain, Chantilly, Mortefontaine, etc. Riding in the Bois. There is skiing in the French Alps and the Pyrenees in winter. Yachting, swimming, fishing, golf, riding all along the Riviera, Deauville, Biarritz, and good fishing in Brittany.
THEATERS. . . In Paris: The Comédie Française, one of the most famous theaters in the world, is open all year except in July and August. Grand opera may be heard all year at the Opéra. The Opéra Comique has light opera. The Grand Guignol, which features horror plays, is certainly worth a visit. The Folies Bergère is the mecca of many Americans and there are numerous music halls offering variety shows which you can enjoy without understanding French. Buy your seats from a broker; it saves wear and tear. Performances at 8:45 p.m. Matinees Thursday and Sunday at 3:00. See music for a listing of concert halls.
TIME. .. Six hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . Hotels add a service charge to your bill, but still you must tip the bell boy, porter, chambermaid, waiter and anyone else who does anything for you. It is customary to tip movie-theater ushers. Cab drivers are tipped 20 per cent of the meter reading. There is a washroom attendant who must be tipped. The wine waiter