Your trans-Atlantic baggage allowance is 66 pounds. That’s adequate for all your equipment (including bike) if you travel light. Lightweight bikes weigh about 30 pounds. Saddle pack shouldn’t weigh more than 25 lbs. — if pedaling is to be fun. Sleeping bags (5 lbs.) are handy if you plan to camp out. A little juggling of the necessities and you can even take along a small suitcase (of city clothes) to be sent ahead to London or Paris.
In your saddlepack, take clothes that you could, wash out in a mountain brook and won’t need ironing. Our basic cycling wardrobe included: 1 wrin-kleproof seersucker skirt (see cover); 3 basque shirts; 1 pair shorts; 1 pair dungarees; 2 sweaters; 1 raincoat; wool socks; 2 pairs shoes.
A youth hostel is an inexpensive overnight accommodation for hikers and bikers. You get a warm, clean bunk, cooking facilities, and fine camaraderie for the equivalent of 25(l a night. Some even serve inexpensive meals. You’ll find hostels in most European countries. Write to American Youth Hostels, Inc., Northfield, Mass., for details on how to become a member of AYH. An AYH pass entitles you to stay at hostels in all countries.
All over Europe, as soon as you get away from tourists’ haunts, you will find small inns or pensions, which often cost little more than a youth hostel (25<1 to 754 per night). In big cities such as Paris, London and Rome, look for one of the international student dorms or a pension where students l;ve.
...How to Find Your Way Around
With maps. Buy road maps of each country you plan to visit—and maps of each large city.
Pan American offices everywhere will give you wonderful advice. A French girl in Pan Am’s Paris office mapped our route in Burgundy—where she had cycled during the war, delivering messages for the underground. An Irishman at Shannon airport sent us to Kerry on the most Gaelic jaunt imaginable.
American Express in all large cities will cash Travelers’ Checks and receive mail for you.
Itinerary? We believe in asking local advice as you go along. But the more travel books you skim before you take off, the less chance there is of missing something worthwhile there. Language? You’ll be surprised how far English and high-school French will take you.
.. • About Bikes
“You mean you actually put your bikes on the same plane?” ask friends and incredulous Europeans.
“Yes, right in the cargo compartment. Never underestimate the Clippers,” we always reply. We’ve seen everything but a herd of elephants transported via PAA—though of course, on their Cargo Clippers.
We flew our bikes to Europe—but you may prefer to buy yours in England or to rent one in each country where you. plan to cycle. We rode lightweight English touring bikes. Don’t get a featherweight racer. For touring with baggage, you need a slightly sturdier bike. A lock and chain are musts, and it’s a good idea to carry a few spare parts (valve sizes, etc., sometimes differ in continental countries). Above all, invest in that wonderful invention—the 3-speed gear shift!
...What It Costs
That depends on you. We lived for 12 wonderful weeks in Europe on $350 each. That included an occasional train ride and buying gifts for loving friends and family. Flying costs were extra. The amount of flying you will want to do on the continent will depend on the countries you want to see, length of your vacation, etc. The PAA System has many stops throughout Europe, so you can make your itinerary fit your vacation budget.
You can fly round-trip across the ocean by Clipper and have three whole months biking on the continent for $1000. We compared this price with other tours by conventional means and $1000 would buy you only six weeks in Europe.