Even Shakespeare’s from Strafford-on-/ speare\
Edinburgh
¡shannon
ac, under the influence of historical novels, oridge lined with little shops—is shocked to in 1600
SCOTLAND
LONDON
BRUSSELS
FRANKFURT
PARIS
STUTTGART
MUNICH
A, P ZURICH
GENEVA 0)
BARCELONA
.FLORENCE
MARSEILLE
AMERICAN
WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
STOPS
AMERICAN “CLIPPER
ru*sels: Sidewalk caj enfaI- And continent,
c hears some blarney and ne gings out on the Dingle Pç st picturesque part of Ireland
r outside of
The Riviera: We pause to look at the Cote Nice—sun, swimming, and bouillabaisse—p°r
Now you can fly across the Atlantic in Pan American’s new, double-decked Clippers—the largest commercial land-planes in the world!
Here’s an entirely new-type Clipper that is actually large enough to stroll about in , . . the only one with the unique double-decked construction, making it possible to “go below” to a lower deck and a spacious club-lounge. And with a speed of over six miles a minute, flying between the United States and Europe becomes a brief, pleasant experience of real comfort and convenience.
These “America’-class Clippers mark a new era in air transportation as •they join the Pan American Clippers already dying to six continents 65 countries and colonies.
excellence!
More than half the seats in the upper-deck cobin are convertible to sleeper accomodations, wider
and tannar ....	.
This intimate and attractive lower-deck lounge of this 75-passenger Clipper is an invitation to stroll from your seat for exercise, refreshments, and a complete change of surroundings.
>n: Sparkling waterfront, sun snician-stylë boats with colore* pink and blue houses that look
Fisherman's daughter in Cascaes (fishing village 15 miles from Lisbon) teaches Jean to balance basket of fish on her head, Portu-guese-styte.
Mealtime aboard the Clipper is a pleasant time for everyone, with dishes inviting enough to tempt even the smallest appetites. Each seat has its own table for dining or for games, reading and letter-writing.	^
On top of the world—or at least an Alp! (One hill we didn't bike up.) Mac summons nerve to descend on skiis.