100 kurus). United States $1 equals 2.80 Turkish lira. Money car be exchanged at any bank.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REOUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . .. Passport. You are allowed 50 cigarettes or 20 cigars; 1 opened bottle of liquor. Visitors remaining more than a month must apply for residence permit. Visitors en route to other countries by plane need no visa for an overnight stay provided they remain at the airport where there are two mediocre hotels. Inoculation certificates are required if coming from infected area. No United States currency, checks, etc., above the amount imported, only 100 Turkish lira, may be exported. No exposed but undeveloped film may be taken out of the country.
DRUG STORES . . . There are no American-type drug stores. Turkish drug stores carry pharmaceuticals, perfumes, cosmetics and toiletries. Some American products are available but are very expensive. Many French and Swiss products are available.
ELECTRIC CURRENT . . . The voltage is 110 a.c. in most sections on the European side, 220 a.c. on the Asiatic. Transformer plugs must have round prongs. Hilton Hotel: 220 a.c.
FAUNA . . . Wild boar, pheasants, hares, partridge, quail, woodcock, deer.
FLORA . . . Wonderful flowers—abundant roses, carnations, tulips, violets, chrysanthemums, brown orchids, gladioli, hydrangea and many other well-known varieties.
FOOD . . . Wonderful seafood and rice dishes. Try borek, a delicious thin pastry filled with white cheese, egg and parsley; dolmas, grape or cabbage leaves filled with ground beef and served with sour cream; chicken or turkey stuffed with ig pilav, rice cooked with currants, pine nuts and spices; kilig, swordfish grilled on a spit with bay leaves. Turkish coffee, thick and sweet, is famous. Pasteurized milk is available. Better hotels serve international food. Prices run $1.75 and up. Turkish beer is excellent, somewhat like German beer.
GAMBLING . . . Racing with pari-mutuels at Istanbul and Ankara. There is a national lottery drawn every month. No gambling in the night clubs.
LANGUAGE ... . English is spoken in hotels and principal shops and restaurants. Turkish is the official language. French is also spoken in most circles in Istanbul and Ankara.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Hotels can handle both laundry and dry cleaning. Advisable not to send out-of-the-ordinary materials or women’s clothing with ornaments, sequins, etc. Prices are much the same as in the United States and service is reasonably good.
LIQUOR . . . Turkey makes some good red and white wines. Their liqueurs are comparatively good and varied. Roseleaf, banana, strawberry, tangerine, sour cherry are some of the flavors. Turkish vermouth, gin and brandy are fair; vodka is very good. Local liquors are inexpensive. Raki (pronounced “rocky”) is a native drink distilled from the grape. It is drunk only with meze (Turkish smorgasbord-marvelous!) and not as a highball. Popular American drinks are avail-