1
-4
St. Sophia, a Byzantine masterpiece in Istanbul, was dedicated on Christmas Day, 538 a.d. Behind the massive dome lies the famous Bosporus Sea.
mous bazaars in the old section of Istanbul. American products are very expensive but other imported articles are less expensive than in the U. S. (such as French perfumes. German cameras, English woolens).
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . There is horse racing, soccer, wrestling, boxing, track meets, basketball, tennis and golf.
SPORTS ■ • • Swimming, sailing and fishing are excellent in the waters of the Bosporus, Aegean Sea, the Black Sea, and the Sea of Marmara. Hunting wild boar is a favorite national sport. Horseback riding can be arranged. Winter sports include sledding, skiing at Istanbul and Ankara and the famous slopes of Bursa at the foot of Mount Olympus.
THEATERS ■ • . There are several theaters in Istanbul and Ankara where plays in Turkish are produced. Companies visiting Turkey perform English and French plays. Tickets for matinees or evening performances can be purchased through your hotel at between $2 and $3.
TIME • • • Seven hours later than U.S. Eastern Standard Time. Rail and air schedules are based on the 24-hour day. Daylight saving is not observed.
TIPPING . . . About the same as elsewhere in Europe. 10 to 15 per cent. Your baggage porter gets 24 kurus per bag.
TRANSPORTATION. . . There are taxis, buses and trams in Istanbul, and a one-minute subway between Pera and Galata. Ferries link the European and Asiatic shores. The trip takes about 20 minutes. Taxis should be paid the meter reading plus tip of 20 per cent, minimum 25 kurus. Bus tickets vary in price with the distance. Trams are 20 kurus first class and 15 kurus second class. Buses and trams are marked with origin and destination. Automobiles may be rented through your hotel for 50 kurus a kilometer, minimum of 100 kilometers, all-inclusive, i.e., about 20 cents per mile. Taxis are comparatively inexpensive and the easiest mode of transport for tourists.
WATER. • • Water is safe to drink, but there are many fine table and mineral waters if you prefer.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Hand-made embroideries, bed jackets of silky mohair, rugs and carpets, Bursa silks, silverware, ceramics, hand-carved meerschaum pipes, attar of roses and other perfumes, wonderful candies, silver and gold filigree, handmade linen handkerchiefs. Don’t pay the first price asked in the bazaars.