able at the Hilton and the Park Hotel bar. The Screwdriver (orange juice and vodka), is a famous drink here.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The Admiral Bristol Hospital (more familiarly known as the American Hospital) in Istanbul is modern and staffed with English-speaking doctors. There are many English-speaking doctors available. Consult your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES. • ■ Yeni Melek, Atlas, Melek, Ipek, Ar and San are central downtown theaters in Istanbul which show American and British films with English sound track and Turkish titles, as well as European films in various languages. Fairly new movies are shown.
MUSIC ■ • • Istanbul has a symphony orchestra which gives concerts of the works of Turkish composers as well as the works of the great masters. There is opera and ballet, too. Radio Istanbul and Radio Ankara have symphony and philharmonic orchestras whose concerts are open to the public by invitation.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. ., In Istanbul you’ll want to take in the entertainment and dancing at the new glass-enclosed Sadirvan Supper Club set in the garden of the new Hilton among the fountains for which it is named. They also have a Marmara Roof cocktail lounge and Karagoz (puppet decor) bar adjoining their Terrace Restaurant. Others include the Taksim Casino (outside in the summer), Park Hotel, Kervansaray, the new Kordon Bid (Cordon Bleu)—all near Taksim Square—and the Konak Hotel with orchestras and floor shows of European and local entertainers. In Ankara the top nightclub is Sureyya’s (open in winter only).
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Tourists can buy black-and-white and color still and movie film here. Fine German cameras and other equipment can be purchased in many shops cheaper than in the U.S. Film developing is all right for black-and-white but color developing is not good here. Foto Sabah and Kodak for developing, usually in 24 hours.
RELIGION . . . Turkey is a Moslem country, but there are many Christian churches, including Catholic, Greek Orthodox and Protestant, as well as lewish synagogues. Most Americans attend the Dutch chapel, located just off the main street of Istanbul.
RESTAURANTS ... In Istanbul, the new Hilton offers the Bosporus Terrace with soda fountain and coffee shop, the more formal Terrace Restaurant with bar and the glamorous §adirvan Supper Club. Wonderful food may be had at Abdullah Efendi, on the main street; the popular Misir Carsisi known to travelers as the Spice Bazaar; Cinar on the beach near the airport with American bar. While sightseeing up the Bosporus, stop at Canli Balik or Rex, where the seafood is marvelous and the view delightful. Lebon, Markiz and Tilla are excellent for tea, ice cream and pastries. In Ankara the place is Karpig. Eating out in Turkey is inexpensive.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The main shopping area is all along the main street in the European section of Istanbul. Most shops are open every day except Sunday from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. For travelers the best and favorite shopping for all Turkish novelties is in the fa-