from an American soda fountain to a glass-enclosed night club. The Park Hotel, just off Taksim Square, and the Divan Hotel are next best; others are the Konak in the shopping center and the Pera Palas nearby. In Ankara there are the Ankara Palas, near the business center, the Yiiksel Palas, near the American Embassy, and the Turistik, near Ulus Square. Rates run from $9 single and $14 double without meals.
ARTS . . . The Seraglio Palace Musem (Topkapi) reflects the fascinating era of the Sultans. See, too, the Archaeological Museum, Museum of Oriental Archaeology, Museum of Turkish and Moslem Art, Istanbul Municipal Museum, Military Museum, and the Fine Arts Academy.
BALLET.. . There is a school of ballet. European companies rarely perform here.
BANKS. . . The principal New York banks have representatives in both Istanbul and Ankara. Ottoman Bank, Is Bank, Central Bank, Holland Bank, Bank of Rome, and Italian Commercial Bank all cash
a CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS.. . New Year’s Day; April 23, Children’s Day; May 1, Spring Day; May 19, Youth Day; August 30, Victory Day; and October 29, Republic Day—all stores close. Christmas and Easter are also celebrated by Christians in Turkey. Two Turkish religious (Moslem) holidays are kept: Seker Bayram and Kurban Bayram, the dates of which vary from year to year. The former is outstanding for beautiful illuminations of mosques and other public buildings.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO. . . American cigarettes and tobacco are not available. There are many varieties of Turkish cigarettes, which also come in American-type tobaccos processed in American manner. Yeni Harman and Bafra are this type of cigarette. Prices run between 15 cents and 40 cents a pack.
CLIMATE. . . Istanbul has much the same climate as New York. In summer the heat is tempered by cool breezes from the Bosporus by way of the Black Sea. Ankara, which has an elevation of 2,600 feet, has a drier climate with cool nights all summer long. Southern Turkey has a climate comparable to Florida. In general the best time of year to visit Turkey is between June and December, particularly the last three months of the year.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... The fez is strictly outlawed now in Turkey and will be seen only as a purchasable curio in the bazaars. Only an occasional peasant woman will be seen veiled and this is not a true veil, merely a head scarf which can be partly drawn. The Turks are very sensitive on these questions, so tread lightly. Turks always shake hands on meeting, both men and women.
COMMUNICATIONS. .•. Cables, airmail, telephone to the United States. Postage for letters is 55 kurus for 10 grams and for postal cards 50 kurus.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the lira (which contains