GREAT BRITAIN
Airport for Scotland is about 32 miles from Glasgow. The bus fare into the city is £1.85 (half-price for children). Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car is at the airport (tel: Prestwick 76517) or in Glasgow (tel: 221 8165).
Edinburgh: One of the most beautiful and sophisticated cities in Britain, Edinburgh is the social and cultural center of Scotland. Its old city has winding streets, Edinburgh Castle, and the Palace of Holyroodhouse, the Queen’s official residence in Scotland. The new town section of the city has the Georgian Princes Street, with shops on one side and Princes Street Gardens on the other. The Edinburgh International Festival of Music and Drama, world famous for its excellence, takes place every summer. Across the River Forth, in the county of Fife, is picturesque St. Andrews—a university town and the mecca for golfers around the world.
Glasgow: The only complete medieval cathedral in Scotland is in Glasgow, Scotland’s largest city. Located on the banks of the River Clyde, and essentially an industrial town, Glasgow has many fine parks. Nearby is the Loch Lomond National Nature Reserve.
The Highlands and Western Isles: The gateway to this remote and beautiful northern area of Scotland is the centrally located town of Perth. To the northwest is Fort William, overshadowed by Britain’s highest mountain, Ben Nevis, and within easy driving distance of the famed Loch Ness. Aberdeen, one of Britain’s most famous fishing ports, is now also the center of the offshore oil-drilling industry. From here you can visit Balmoral Castle or, during the winter months, enjoy a weekend’s skiing at the winter resort areas of Aviemore and the Cairngorms. The “capital of the Highlands,” Inverness, is—like the other Scottish cities mentioned here—an excellent place to shop for tartans, knitwear, tweeds, and native craft items.
The best known of the western island is the Isle of Skye. The outer islands include the Outer Hebrides, the Orkneys, and the Shetland Isles. Further information for reaching these island sby air or sea is obtainable from the Scottish Tourist Board in Edinburgh or the British Tourist Authority, London.
Wales
United with England for 700 years, the Welsh people have their own language and literature and have retained their own individuality and culture, made famous by Dylan Thomas. Wales offers the visitor superb scenery and facilities for the outdoor sportsman.
South Wales: This scenic area includes Tintern Abbey in Monmouthshire and the narrow Valley of Rhondda that leads toward the hilly and green Brecon Beacons. Caerphilly Castle is located between the industrial city of Swansea and Cardiff, the capital of Wales.
Central and North Wales: Central Wales, with the Cambrian mountains running north and south through it, is great country for the sportsman interested in fishing, sailing, and hiking. The university town of Aberystwyth is here. In North Wales, a hiker’s paradise, is Snowdon, the highest mountain in England and Wales (3,560 feet). Snowdon National Park has