GREAT BRITAIN
a beautiful Council House, a Castle overlooking the city, and an ancient inn. The modern Nottingham Playhouse is interesting, as is the older Theatre Royal. The 12th-and 13th-century Lincoln Cathedral, on a steep limestone hill dominating the town of Lincoln, has the highest central tower in England, and a fantastic 13th-century Angel Choir. In Lincoln stay at Eastgate, Eastgate (from US$44 double BB) or White Hart, Bailgate (from US$48 double BB). North of Nottingham is Sherwood Forest, of Robin Hood fame, which has magnificent oaks and is great walking country.
The North and the Lake District
The north of England has some of the most magnificent scenery and interesting towns in Britain. Dividing it right down the middle is the Pennine chain of hills, called the “backbone” of the country; at the southern end of the area there is the Peak District, where rivers have created vast underground caverns and holes in the soft limestone.
Manchester: A thriving port because of its connection with the Mersey River by the Manchester Ship Canal, Manchester is an industrial city and the heart of the cotton industry in Britain. It is a city with great Victorian buildings, a marvelous Public Libary, a large university, and the famous Hallfe Orchestra.
York: Dominated by its cathedral, York Minster, which has some of the finest stained-glass windows in Europe, York has stretches of its medieval city walls along which the visitor can still walk. The Shambles, a cluster of narrow streets where the second floors overhang the streets and nearly touch each other, gives the city its characteristic ancient appearance. Stay at Royal Station, Station Road (from US$62 double BB) or the Viking, North Street (from US$69 double CP). Southwest of York is the old spa town of Harrogate and the old market town of Ripon. Visit the ruim of Fountains Abbey and the gardens of Studley Royal.
The Moors: North of Manchester and York are the windswept moors, open, unfenced, treeless expanses of heather and grass. The town of Haworth, just west of Leeds, was the home of the famous Bronte family, and visitors can walk across the moors to the house on which Wnthering Heights was based.
The Lake District: This northwest area of England Is composed of mountains, lakes and dales, and is a marvelous place to hike and drive. This lovely, intensely green area is linked with William Wordsworth, whose Dove Cottage can be seen at Grasmere, and Beatrix Potter, who lived and worked in the area, and whose home can also be visited. The Lake District is 900 square miles of some of the most attractive and unspoiled countryside in Britain.
Scotland
A sparsely populated, spacious, and beautifully green landscape coupled with interesting, ancient cities makes Scotland a place every visitor should see. Reminders of Sir Walter Scott, Robert Burns, and Mary, Queen of Scots, are to be found throughout the country. Prestwick