GREAT BRITAIN
a performance of the Bristol Old Vic theater company, which performs at the Theatre Royal. Hotels in Bristol: Grand, Broad Street (from US$49 double BB). Nearby is the town of Wells, with its harmonious 12th-century Cathedral. Glastonbury is also near, a town associated with the Arthurian legends; the remains of Glastonbury Abbey are well worth a visit.
Plymouth; On the southwest coast of Britain, Plymouth is one of the principal towns in the county of Devonshire. It was on Plymouth Hoe that Sir Francis Drake is said to have finished his game of bowls before setting out to vanquish the Spanish Armada. It was from Plymouth, too, that the Pilgrim Fathers set out for the New World aboard the Mayflower in 1620. Today Plymouth is a blend of ancient and modern and makes a good base for exploring Devon, the Cornish Peninsula, and the bleak, dramatic landscape of Dartmoor and Exmoor. Hotels in Plymouth: Holiday Inn, Armada Way (from US$43 double) and the Mayflower Post House, Cliffe Road, The Hoe (from US$42 double).
Oxford and the Cotswolds
Oxford: The spires of Britain’s oldest university present a magnificent spectacle from the low-lying hills that surround the city, looking much as they did hundreds of years ago. Some time during the 12th century, Oxford became a center of erudition and scholarship. Throughout the ensuing centuries, right up to the present day, colleges have been built through royal and private patronage, and the visitor would do well to spend some time walking through the grounds of at least some of the university’s 28 colleges. Especially notable are the grounds of Magdalen and Christ Church, and the blend of new and old architecture at Brasenose College. The city has other treasures, including Wren’s Sheldonian Theatre, the Bodleian Library, and the Ashmolean Museum.
Henley and Windsor: Southeast of Oxford in the Thames valley, Henley is the site of the annual Henley Royal Regatt. Windsor Castle is an official residence of the reigning monarch; nearby are the lovely grounds of Windsor Great Park, and across the Thames are the playing fields of Eton College, the famous “public” school.
The Cotswolds: The Cotswolds are a range of hills in the west Midlands of Britain. The characteristic limestone and thatched-roof cottages that are to be found in the area’s many charming villages provide a picture of English village life which has looked the same for centuries. Broadway, at the foot of a steep hill, is a perfect example and provides a good base for exploring surrounding countryside. Stay at the Lygon Arms, High Street (from US$70 double). Chipping Campden is perhaps one of the most beautiful nearby villages; it was a prosperous wool town and its 17th- and 18th-century buildings are dominated by its lovely church. Cirencester was the site of a Roman villa; it has an extremely large collection of 15th- and 16th-century monumental brasses in its large Norman church. Cirencester Park covers an area of 3,000 acres and is a beautiful spot for walks. Nearer Oxford is the town of Woodstock, site of the beautiful Blenheim Palace, gift of Queen Anne to the Duke of