GREAT BRITAIN
afternoons, others stay open until 7:30 on Wednesday or Thursday. Most notable among London’s top department stores are Harrods in Knights-bridge (it would be simpler to list what it doesn’t sell than what it does); Selfridges in Oxford Street; Fortnum and Mason’s on Piccadilly (mainly food); and John Lewis. London is a shopper’s paradise, and you’ll find prices somewhat lower than at home. For the latest fashion in furniture, fabrics, and toys try Habitat or Heals on Tottenham Court Road. For antiques explore shops along Camden Passage in Islington or Mount Street in Mayfair, or take a look in at Sotheby’s or Christies—London’s top auction houses. You shouldn’t miss The Scotch House in Knightsbridge, which sells tartans and traditional Scottish regalia. Foyle’s on Charing Cross Road and Hatchards on Piccadilly are well-known bookshops. For records try the HMV Shop in Oxford Street.
SPORTS
The national sports of Britain are soccer and, in the summer, cricket. Rugby football also has a vociferous following. In London you can attend a league football game on Saturday afternoons from September to April. During the summer months county cricket and “test” (international) matches are played at Lord’s Cricket Ground near Regent’s park and at the Oval, not far from Waterloo station. There are excellent golf courses near London, and if you bring a letter of introduction from your club secretary you will be able to play at the Sunningdale course in Berkshire, the Royal St George’s in Kent, and the Wentworth Club in Surrey.
WHAT TO SEE
London
No visit to London would be complete without a glimpse of Westminster Abbey, where the Kings and Queens of England are crowned. It is also a national shrine to the artists, poets, heroes, and statesmen of Britain. The Abbey is open to the public every day until sunset, except during state occasions. You can combine a visit to the Abbey with a look at the adjacent Houses of Parliament, but to see the inside you will have to stand in line to enter the Strangers’ Gallery in the House of Commons; the House of Lords admits no visitors. Big Ben, the world’s most famous bell in a beautiful clock face, stands in the tower at the east end of the Parliament building. Nearby is Downing Street, with the Prime Minister’s house at No. 10 and the Chancellor of the Exchequer next door at No. 11. A mile or so down river is the Tower of London (you can go by boat from Westminster pier). Things to look for are the Crown Jewels, Traitor’s Gate, and the ravens—whose departure, legend has it, would herald the fall of England. Nearby is the magnificent Tower Bridge. In the City is St Paul’s Cathedral, the magnificent work of Sir Christopher Wren, who reconstructed London after the Great Fire of 1666. If you feel like a long climb, ascend to the “whispering gallery” in the dome.
At 11:30 every other morning (every morning during the summer) the famous ceremony of Changing the Guard takes place in the forecourt of