GREAT BRITAIN
the summer leaving Victoria, Piccadilly Circus and Marble Arch. For details of other tours, and for free bus maps, call London Transport Enquiries, 01-222-1234.
The Underground: Travel by subway is definitely the fastest way to get around town; fares depend on how far you are going, and start at lOp. There are several special-rate tickets available for extensive travel on Underground trains and/or London Transport buses. For example, 3 4-day “go as you please” ticket will give unlimited travel on the tube and on red buses for £7.50 (£2.80 for children under fourteen). A 7-day ticket costs £10.40 (£3.90 for children). Ask at a ticket office in the Underground for a free pocket guide, which makes getting where you want to go a lot easier. Destinations and directions are well marked, but get a general idea of the direction you want before going down or up a stairway.
Taxis: London taxis are metered and are for hire when the roof sign is illuminated. You can hail one in the street. There is a small additional charge for luggage and travel after 8pm.
Travel around Britain: British Rail’s “Inter-City” services link every major town in the country; services are fast and frequent, and some are extremely comfortable—notably the Blue Pullman Specials to Bristol, Cardiff, Birmingham, and Manchester. There are dining and sleeping accommodations on longer journeys.
Internal Airlines: British Airways “Inter-Britain” service brings the extremities of the country within 90 minutes of Heathrow. Call 01-370-5411 for flight information and reservations. Buses for Heathrow can be caught at West London Air Terminal, Cromwell Road, SW7. Check-in at airport.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Postwar English cooking earned a poor reputation, but the cooking itself has improved immeasurably. London particularly has more good restaurants, of more varied ethnic types, than most other large cities in Europe. French, Italian, Greek, Chinese, Indian, and even American restaurants are numerous. The great old English dishes, such as game pie or venison, do not feature in day-to-day life the way they used to, but the standard English dishes today, though simple, can be very good due to the high quality of the ingredients.
Mass catering is not inspired, so if you want a good but inexpensive meal and don’t know where to go—choose a pub. Pub lunches are simple and tend to be much the same everywhere—shepherd’s pie, steak and kidney pudding, or “bangers and mash” (sausages and mashed potatoes)—but they are also of dependable quality everywhere and are not expensive.
Best restaurants in London for English food are Wilton’s in St James’s, Stones Chop House, off the Haymarket, Simpson’s-in-the-Strand, Rules in Covent Garden, Lockets, Westminster, and the Hungry Horse, Fulham, The English love fish, and good fish restaurants include Wheeler’s chain, Overtons in St. James’s and Bill Bentley’s in the City,