GREAT BRITAIN
The South of England
Canterbury: This ancient city is dominated by the splendid Canterbury Cathedral, the spiritual center of the worldwide Anglican community, the place where Thomas a Becket was murdered, and the destination of Geoffrey Chaucer’s pilgrims. The city retains many of its medieval features and much of its charm.
Dover: One hour’s drive from Canterbury, Dover has the oldest building in England, the 2,000-year-old Pharos or Roman lighthouse. The chalk headlands provide the magnificent and famous white cliffs.
Brighton: A busy, often crowded resort since the 18th century, Brighton has two piers, lots of antique shops in its many alleys, the “Lanes,” and the extraordinary Royal Pavilion. It is the essence of any English seaside resort town. Hotels in Brighton: Old Ship, Kings Road (from US$59 double BB), and Royal Albion, Old Steine (from US$50 double BB).
Southampton: This ancient and historic port is now a busy commercial and industrial center and still has part of its old town walls. Adjacent to the harbor is the New Forest, one of Britain’s best preserved woodland areas, which has wild ponies and an incredible variety of birds. It was originally set aside as a royal hunting ground by William the Conqueror in the 11th century.
Winchester: North of Southampton, Winchester is a beautiful cathedral town: it was the capital of England during the reign of King Alfred the Great. It is one of England’s most unspoiled and graceful cities. Winchester Cathedral has the longest Gothic nave in Europe.
Salisbury: The platueau called Salisbury Plain is dominated by the magnificent Salisbury Cathedral, whose 404-foot spire is visible for many miles; it has been immortalized by the paintings of John Constable. Near Salisbury is Stonehenge, the most famous of the country’s prehistoric monuments.
Barkham: Further east and just south of Reading, this little village is the ancestral home of George Washington, and some of his relatives are buried in the parish churchyard.
The West Country
Bath: Since Roman times Bath has been known for its mineral waters; visit the Roman Baths and the Pump Room, an elegant place where you can taste the supposedly health-giving waters. The city’s elegant appearance is the result of 18th-century planning and architecture; the lovely Georgian crescents of houses make walks around the city rewarding. The Abbey has a lovely interior with very fine fan vaulting. The annual Bath Music Festival is held every summer. Hotels in Bath: Beaufort, Walcot Street (from US$43 double BB) and the Francis, Queen Square (from US$44 double).
Bristol: An inland port of some importance, Bristol has the lovely perpendicular-style Church of St Mary Redcliffe. John Cabot sailed from Bristol in 1497 to discover the American continent, and the city was the original home of William Penn, developer of Pennsylvania. Try to see