GREAT BRITAIN
the oldest pubs in town in the Prospect of Whitby on the Thames at Wapping in the East End. It’s a fascinating place but hard to find, so take a taxi. There are thousands of pubs in London, almost as many as there are opinions about which is best.
ENTERTAINMENT
London’s artistic attractions are many and varied; there is good theater, ballet, opera, concerts of all types of music, films, nightclubs, and every other form of entertainment, including a few music hall events. Cultural events: London’s theater is perhaps the most active in the world. Every night some of the best and most famous actors can be seen on the stage—at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane, the Aldwych (London home of the Royal Shakespeare Company), and the new National Theatre (home of the National Theatre Company) on London’s South Bank by the River. Plays, musicals, and revues are presented at the Prince Charles, Her Majesty’s, and the London Palladium, to name only a very few. Shows usually start at 7:30 or 8, later on Saturday. Current productions are listed in the Evening Standard and Time Out and at theater booking agencies.
There are fequent orchestral concerts at the Royal Festival Hall, the Royal Albert Hall, and other smaller concert halls. The Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, is the home of the Royal Opera Company, which stages operas in their original languages with visiting stars, and the Royal Ballet, one of the world’s leading classical ballet companies. The English National Opera gives excellent performances of opera in English at the London Coliseum, St Martin’s Lane. There are also a number of modern dance and opera groups performing regularly throughout London. Films: The cinema business is booming in Britain, and London has many first-rate movie houses, West End cinema prices around £2. Out of the centre of town, more like £1-£1.50.
Nightclubs: There are many nightclubs in London that offer atmosphere, first-class international cabaret acts, reasonably priced food, and dancing. One of the most famous nightspots is Ronnie Scotts jazz club at 47 Frith Street (tel: 439-0747); admission costs £4 weeknights, £5.00 weekends, to hear some of the best jazz musicians. In the grand tradition of extravaganzas are the shows at Talk of the Town at the Llippodrome Corner near Leicester Square. Admission, which includes dinner and cabaret, comes to £11.55 weekdays, and £12.65 on Fridays and Saturdays.
Discotheques: Some of the most fashionable and popular are Samantha’s, 3 New Burlington Street (tel: 734-6249)—“private,” though temporary membership arranged if you bring your passport; the Marquee, 90 Wardour Street, Wl, one of London’s oldest discotheques; and La Valbonne in Regent Street; upstairs at Ronnie Scott’s; Thursday’s in Kensington High Street and Gullivers in Down Street.
SHOPPING
Most stores in London open 9-5:30, Mon-Sat; some close on Saturday