GREAT BRITAIN
Buckingham Palace, The Queen’s London residence. Get there early for a good view. Queen Elizabeth II has an official birthday celebration each year on the first or the second Saturday in June, and it is the occasion for Trooping the Colour, when the Queen takes the salute at a march past the regiments of the Brigade of Guards, accompanied by music from the Brigade bands.
London houses great beauty, history, and riches in its many museums and galleries. The British Museum alone has under its roof the Rosetta Stone, the Portland Vase, the magnificent Elgin Marbles, two copies of the Magna Carta, an amusing collection of clocks, and one of the most important libraries in the world. The Victoria and Albert Museum is a world in itself, containing the fine and applied arts of all periods. The National Gallery, Trafalgar Square, has a representative collection of European painting; next door at the National Portrait Gallery is a collection of portraits of famous Britons through the ages. The Tate Gallery houses modern and British art. Apsley House is now a museum recording the adventures of the Duke of Wellington, whose London residence it was. The Science Museum and Imperial War Museum are also of interest, especially to children.
London’s extensive system of parks and gardens provides the visitor with an opportunity to walk and enjoy rural surroundings right in the middle of the city. Hyde Park has a lovely, winding body of water, the Serpentine, and there are flowers and ponds in the adjoining Kensington Gardens. Regent’s Park is immense (470 acres), and contains the London Zoological Gardens within its bounds. St Jame’s Park leads from Whitehall to the Palace, and is famous for its variety of birds.
A trip well worth taking while in London is a riverboat ride down to Greenwich for a look over the splendid tea clipper, the Cutty Sark. Nearby is Gipsy Moth IV, the boat in which the late Sir Francis Chichester sailed around the world single-handed, the National Maritime Museum, and Greenwich Park, the original site of the Royal Observatory through which passes the Prime Meridian. The second recommended trip is up river to the Royal Botanical Gardens, at Kew, where almost every species of plant on earth is cultivated, admission is only 2p.
Further out of London, a half-hour train ride from Waterloo Station, is Hampton Court, expropriated by King Henry VIII from Cardinal Wolsey in the 16th century and a royal residence for over 200 years. The magnificent tapestries and paintings make splendid viewing, and the gardens contain a private maze. Further west and within 10 minutes’ drive of Heathrow Airport is Runnymede, a meadow bordering the Thames, where King John is said to have signed the Magna Carta, a charter of rights that laid the foundations for British democracy. There is a stone memorial to John F. Kennedy on a hill nearby.
Chartwell, the home of the late Sir Winston Churchill, is 21 miles south of London and can be reached by Green Line bus. Its setting gives it lovely views over the surrounding Kent countryside. The garden is especially interesting; Sir Winston built several of the walls himself.