GREAT BRITAIN
best known for oysters. Try a dozen oysters and a pint of Guinness as a counter lunch. Tea at Browns (Dover Street, Wl) or the Ritz will give you the feel of old England, cucumber sandwiches and all; or you could try the Fountain at Fortnum & Mason’s, where they also serve American-style milk shakes.
Other good restaurants include the Connaught Hotel, Robert Carrier’s in Islington, Inigo Jones in Covent Garden, Leith’s in North Kensington, the Caffe Royal on Regent Street, the Savoy and Langan’s Brasserie, where a meal is regarded as an “interesting experience” and the cuisine is excellent. Medium-priced English restaurants include Busbys’, Chelsea; the Baker & Oven, Marylebone; Aunties, Mayfair; Samuel Pepys at Brooks Wharf, EC4. Restaurants featuring international menus: French—Le Poulbot, Cheapside; Le Gavroche, Lower Sloane Street, and Le Français, Kensington, are expensive, while Le Cellier du Midi in Hampstead is a bit less so. Indian—one of the best is Tandoori, Fullham; another is Khans Tandoori in Westbourne Grove (get a table in the front of the restaurant if possible) or try Shezan in Knightsbridge. Italian-expensive and fashionable are the Tiberio, Mayfair, and the Terazza in Soho; less expensive are San Lorenzo, Knightsbridge, and Trattoo, Kensington. Japanese—the Mikado, Mayfair, is well established and fairly expensive. Hungarian—London’s most famous Hungarian restaurant is the Gay Hussar, Soho. Greek—the White Tower. Inexpensive meals can be had in branches of the Bistingo chain, in the Rendezvous at the Swiss Centre in Leicester Square, branches of the Stockpot, the Ark at Notting Hill Gate, the Twin Brothers in Kensington Church Street, South of the Border near the Old Vic, or the Chelsea Kitchen in the King’s Road. If you just can’t survive without a hamburger, try the Great American Disaster in Fulham Road or the Hard Rock Caffe in Piccadilly. For vegetarian food try The Raw Deal in York Street (not licensed to serve alcohol but they do not charge corkage) or Cranks, Soho.
DRINKING TIPS
The national drink of the British is beer, served in either pint or pint mugs. The most common brew is draught “bitter,” which is drunk at room temperature and flat. It’s an acquired taste that takes at least three drinks to acquire; 40p is the average cost per pint (cheaper out of town). If you prefer to stay with chilled beer, ask for lager, either bottled or on draught. Guinness is the famous malt stout from Ireland, and ia available in pubs throughout the country. Scotch whisky is the nation’s liquor and cost 35p for a small shot. Ask for a “double.” The place where the British do their drinking is the public house or “pub,” a unique institution and a must for visitors. The British licensing laws dictate pub opening hours; normally pubs are open from 11-3 and 5:30-11, Mon to Sat, 12-2 and 7-10:30 Sunday. Two riverside pubs that are well worth a visit are the Dove at 19 Upper Mall, Hammersmith, and the City Barge at 27 Strand-on-the-Green, Chiswick, both of which date back to Elizabethan times. In the West End near Covent Garden is the ancient Lamb and Flag. It has a literary clientele and serves a delicious game pie when in season. One of