GREAT BRITAIN
Marlborough; it was designed by Vanbrugh, and its grounds were laid out by Capability Brown. Sir Winston Churchill was born in an unpretentious bedroom in the palace.
Gloucestershire: West of the Cotswold hills is the county of Gloucestershire, with unspoiled countryside and the elegant Georgian spa town of Cheltenham. Stay at Queen’s, The Promenade (from US$48 double). They also have a “bargain break’’ for a weekend (at least 2 nights) at US$30 per person per night, including all meals. The country town of Gloucester has a splendid medieval cathedral.
Shakespeare Country
Stratford-upon-Avon: Shakespeare’s birthplace has kept its character intact, in spite of the many tourists that visit here each year. The buildings, mainly Elizabethan and Jacobean, with some Georgian additions, are worth a close look. The visitor will want to attend a performance in the Royal Shakespeare Theatre on the banks of the River Avon (performances March-December, tickets from £1.20). There are several other properties of interest, including Shakespeare’s birthplace and Anne Hathaway’s Cottage, a lovely thatched-roof house in a pleasant walk away from the center of town. Hotels in Stratford-upon-Avon: Falcon, Chapel Street (from US$43 double CP)
Shakespeare, Chapel Street (from US$46 double)
Stratford Hilton, Bridgefoot (from US$48 double)
Swan’s Nest, Bridgefoot (from US$46 double BB)
White Swan, Rother street (from US$39 double BB)
Warwick: North of Stratford, the Forest of Arden leads you to Warwick, the east and west gates of which date back to the 12th century. There are some interesting half-timbered buildings, notably Lord Leicester’s Hospital, the Church of St Mary, and the great Warwick Castle, situated above the River Avon.
Kenilworth: The Castle here is one of the grandest ruined fortresses in Britain; it was used by the Saxons, Normans, and Elizabethans, and it is a fascinating place to wander around.
East Anglia
The expanses of flat and marshy, sometimes black-earthed countryside that make up most of Cambridgeshire and Lincolnshire have given East Anglia its characteristic fen landschape. But East Anglia, once the Saxon Kingdom on the east coast of England, also includes the Norfolk Broads, a perfect place for a summer vacation, and the rolling, lovely countryside of Suffolk, with its charming villages and magnificent churches that have become familiar through the paintings of John Constable.
Norwich: This, the provincial capital of East Anglia, is a beautiful city, unspoiled by the modern world, and has a fine Norman Cathedral, a Castle with a museum and art gallery, and medieval houses placed along winding streets. It also boasts the Maddermarket Theatre, a replica of an Elizabethan theater, with an apron stage. Stay at Maid’s Head, Tombland (from US$37 double BB); Castle, Castle Meadow (from US$43 double BB).