GREAT BRITAIN
Bury St Edmunds: This attractive and lively market town blends modern planning with ancient beauty. It has a lovely little Regency Theatre Royal, recently restored. The area to the south of Bury is the heart of “Constable Country”; the painter was born in East Bergholt, Suffolk.
Newmarket: Situated on open heathland, Newmarket has been the historic home of horse racing in Britain since the time of King James I in the early 1600s. There are two tracks, the Rowley Mile Course used for racing in May, and the July Course, used from June through September. Newmarket continues as the center of the thoroughbred world with its famous bloodstock sales in October and December. The rest of the year you will see the best of Britain’s equine population and their trainers at work on the 4,000-acre Heath.
Ely: Built on high ground and visible for miles from the fens, Ely Cathedral is one of the most beautiful in East Anglia; its eight-sided lantern tower is one of special interest and great structural ingenuity. Ely was for centuries a place of refuge, accessible only by boat until the 17th-and 18th-century fen drainage was completed; it remains a focal point for visitors to East Anglia.
Cambridge: The name of the town comes from the fact that here was one of the few places solid enough for a bridge to be built over the Cam, or Granta River. The city’s loveliness is a combination of its setting and the graciousness of the buildings of the University of Cambridge. The peaceful green lawns of the colleges, many of which extend down to the river, are called “The Backs,” and every visitor should take a boat along the river to get the best view. The college buildings of most interest include King’s College Chapel, with magnificent fan vaulting, Wren’s Trinity College Library, and the 15th-century Cloister Court at Queens College; the gate, bridge, gardens, and main building of Clare College are best seen from the river. The city also has theFitzwilliam Museum, a treasure house of paintings and crafts of all ages. A visitor to Cambridge should also explore the Market Square and climb to the top of Great St Mary’s Church for a magnificent view of the city. Stay at the University Arms Hotel, Regent Street (from US$46 double BB).
Peterborough: This thriving city and market town has a lovely Market Place and 17th-century Guildhall. Its stone Cathedral is one of the finest Romanesque structures in the country, with a unique screened west front displaying arched recesses.
The Midlands
This industrial heart of Britain includes not only the factories that produce much of the nation’s wealth but some beautiful countryside; the area stretches from the North Sea shore on the east all the way to the uplands on the border of Wales. With its thriving rail and road network, Birmingham is a center, both industrial and cultural. The city has a magnificent city Library and a leading Repertory Theatre. Coventry, east of Birmingham, is rich in history; rebuilt since the massive bombing in World War II, the new Cathedral is well worth a visit. Nottingham has