ssued July 1953—20
VIA Pa n
Americas World Airways
tour features
what the rates include
TRANSPORTATION — Across the Atlantic and in Europe as indicated in the itineraries via Pan American World Airways and regularly scheduled connecting air carriers. Between Europe and Israel via EL AL Israel Airlines, Inc. Tourist or first class, according to rates quoted.
HOTELS — Twin-bedded rooms with private bath (where available) at first class (Grade A) hotels throughout. Single rooms at additional cost.
MEALS — Plain (continental) breakfasts, and table d’hote luncheons and dinners while at hotels, except in London and Paris, where breakfasts only will be provided. All meals are included on airliners. Full breakfasts in Israel.
SIGHTSEEING — By limousine in Israel and in Lisbon; by motorcoach elsewhere in Europe. The services of an English-speaking guide, and entrance fees to places visited are included. During the late fall, winter, and early spring, no motorcoach sightseeing is available in Amsterdam. Private car sightseeing can be provided at additional cost.
TIPS AND TAXES — Service charges as imposed by hotels, and local and governmental taxes are included.
TRANSFERS — Transfer of passengers and two average size suitcases between hotels, air terminals, etc., is included throughout.
BAGGAGE — Weight allowance for air travel is 44 lbs. for tourist class passengers, 66 lbs. for first class. Excess baggage will be at the expense of the passenger at all times. THE RATES DO NOT INCLUDE passport and visa fees, where required; meals not specified as being included; tips and fees to station and hotel porters, chauffeurs, guides, and couriers; excess baggage charges; personal items, such as laundry, beverages, etc.; or baggage and personal insurance, which is recommended.
Israel
and
europe
for reservations apply to:


now, in no time at all, you can be in israeL
see this dynamic new nation fulfilling its destiny in a land that has been the inspiration of the ages!
L/oard your Pan American Clipper today, and in less than a day and a half you can have your first sight of Israel, Land of the Bible — see for yourself the astounding progress being made by the world’s newest nation in an age-old setting that has been mankind’s inspiration since the dawn of recorded history.
AN ABIDING EXPERIENCE—Places that have been familiar names as far back as you can remember . . . Jerusalem, Galilee, Beersheba, Caesarea . . . will become living realities before your eyes. The superb modern cities of Tel-Aviv and Haifa will amaze you with their beauty and contemporary vigor. Irrigation projects, communal settlements, thriving new industries will round off an unforgettable picture of a dedicated people fulfilling their prophetic destiny— an experience that will abide with you all your days.
SEE EUROPE, TOO—With the time you save by flying, you can visit Europe as well. All major European cities are served by Pan American, offering you an almost bewildering choice of stopovers en route. As the extension suggestions outlined in this folder show, Rome, Paris, London, Brussels, Amsterdam, Nice, Barcelona, Madrid, Lisbon are all convenient way-stations on your swift, comfortable Pan American Clipper flight between Europe and the U. S., making it possible for you to combine two superb vacations for the price of one low round-trip fare.
(Incidentally, you don’t have to accept either the Israel tour or the European extensions offered here exactly as they stand. These itineraries are entirely flexible, and can be altered in any way you wish.)
LOWEST FARES EVER—Best of all, if you go in the Thrift Season by Pan American World Airway’s wonderful new Clipper Tourist Service, The Rainbow, your trip will cost you less than ever before. Pan American’s Super-6 Clippers give you famous Flying Clipper speed and dependability at the lowest fares to Europe ever. And of course, if expense is not a prime consideration, there is The President, Pan American’s fast, luxury service, or even more luxurious still, the President Special.
COMFORT AND PEACE OF MIND-Whichever Flying Clipper service you choose, you’ll enjoy both comfort and the peace of mind that comes from traveling with the airline that has made more trans-Atlantic crossings than any other airline company. From take-off to landing you’ll find complete relaxation in the confidence of knowing that you are in the capable hands of global-experienced air crews . . . and the 6-continent service team that plans, checks, and controls every ground and air operation of the “World’s Most Experi-ened Airline.’’