Israel tour No. LU
1st Day • NEW YORK — Leave by Pan American World Airways Clipper on your swift, comfortable overnight flight to Europe.
2nd Day • LONDON, PARIS or ROME - Continue by EL AL Israel Airlines to Israel.
3rd Day • TEL AVIV — Arrive at Lydda Airport and proceed by motor to Tel Aviv.
4th Day • JERUSALEM - A whole day excursion to Jerusalem, including ascent of Mt. Zion to the tomb of King David. The Jewish National Institution, tomb of Theodor Herzl, Hadassah Brandeis Center, Meah Shearim (Orthodox Jewish Quarter), Mandelbaum Gate, and Notre Dame de France are among the numerous places of interest you’ll visit in the course of your city tour. Return to Tel Aviv.
5th Day • TEL AVIV — A day of leisure in Israel’s beauti-6th day ful commercial and industrial center, “City of Tomorrow,’’ is followed by full sightseeing of its residential sections, the Great Synagogue, Habimah theatre, Immigrants’ Quarters, Ramat Gan, Jaffa, etc.
7th Day • HAIFA — By motor from Tel Aviv via Nathanya, Caesarea (see the excavations) and through the Emek Jez-re’el to Haifa.
8th Day • GALILEE — Morning tour of Haifa and beautiful Mt. Carmel. Drive on to Nazareth, and thence to Tiberias on the Sea of Galilee, famed for its hot springs. Continue to the Hule Valley (noted reclamation project) and Safed, where you stay overnight.
9th Day • GALILEE — Your tour continues by way of Meron and the seaside resort of Naharya to historic Acre. Return via Haifa to Tel Aviv.
10th Day • THE NEGEV — A whole day tour of the Negev including visits to Rishon-le-Zion, and Beersheba with its traditional wells of Abraham. Return to Tel Aviv via Rehovot.
11th Day • TEL AVIV — This day is free for you to follow your own inclinations.
1 2th Day • TEL AVIV — Leave by EL AL for Rome, Paris or London. Continue by Pan American Clipper flight home.
13th Day • NEW YORK — Arrive in the morning.
extension A
ITALY . FRANCE . ENGLAND
1 2th Day • ROME — Arrive by EL AL Israel Airlines Constellation from Tel Aviv.
13th Day • ROME — See St. Peter’s, the Vatican, with its muse-14th Day	urns, art galleries,	and famed Sistine Chapel, the
15th Day	Appian Way, Arch	of Constantine, the Catacombs,
Roman Forum, and numerous other landmarks of the Eternal City. Leave on 1 5th day by plane for Paris.
16th Day • PARIS — A whole day tour of ever-entrancing Paris, 1 7th Day	including the Arc	de Triomphe, Champs Elysees,
18th Day	Napoleon's Tomb,	Notre Dame, Montmartre, and
the Latin Quarter, is followed by a delightful half-day excursion to Versailles. By plane on the 1 8th day to London.
19th Day • LONDON — Complete London sightseeing includes 20th Day the Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace, St. 21 st Day Paul’s, the Tower of London, Old Curiosity Shop, the West End, and innumerable other historic sights. Special half-day trip to Windsor Castle. Leave on 21st day by Pan American Clipper on overnight flight home.
22nd Day • NEW YORK - A rrive in the morning.
NICE — Le Promenade Des Anglais
4
S§

Tlflf
’
v'
TEL AVIV Habimah Theatre
extension B
ITALY . FRANCE . BELGIUM HOLLAND . ENGLAND
1 2th Day • ROME — Arrive by EL AL Israel Airlines from Tel Aviv.
13th Day • ROME — Comprehensive sightseeing of the Eternal 14th Day City will include St. Peter’s, the Vatican and its 15th Day museums and art galleries, the Roman Forum, Ap-pian Way, Arch of Constantine, Colosseum, Catacombs, and innumerable other landmarks. Leave by plane on the 15th day for Nice.
16th Day • NICE — Highlight of your stay is an unforgettable 17th Day drive over the Grande Corniche mountain road to Monte Carlo, with time to visit the Casino. Leave on 17th day by plane for Paris.
1 8th Day • PARIS — Morning and afternoon sightseeing, includ-19th Day ing the Arc de Triomphe, Champs Elysees, Notre 20th Day Dame, Napoleon's Tomb, the Latin Quarter, Montmartre, etc., and a delightful half-day excursion to Versailles. By plane on the 20th day to Brussels.
21 st Day • BRUSSELS — See the famous Market Place, the Town 22nd Day Hall, Manneken Fountain, old Guild Houses, Wiertz Museum, etc. Leave on 22nd day by plane for Amsterdam.
23rd Day • AMSTERDAM — Your morning tour of this beautiful 24th Day and historic city is followed by an afternoon steamer excursion to picturesque Volendam and the Isle of Marken. By plane on the 24th day to London.
25th Day • LONDON — See the Houses of Parliament, Bucking-26th Day ham Palace, St. Paul’s Cathedral, the Tower of Lon-27th Day don, the West End, and other world-famous sights. Half-day excursion to historic Windsor Castle. Leave in the evening of the 27th day by Pan American Clipper on overnight flight for home.
28th Day • NEW YORK - A rrive in the morning.
extension C
ITALY . FRANCE . SPAIN . PORTUGAL
12th Day • ROME — Arrive by EL AL Israel Airlines from Tel Aviv.
1 3th Day • ROME — See St. Peter’s, the Vatican and its 14th Day	museums and art galleries, the Colosseum,
15th Day	Roman Forum, Appian Way, Arch of Constan-
tine, etc. By plane on the 15th day to Nice.
16th Day • NICE — Your sojourn at this world-famed pleas-17th Day ure resort includes a drive over the Grande 1 8th Day Corniche mountain road to Monte Carlo. Leave on the 1 8th day by plane for Barcelona.
19th Day • BARCELONA — Your city tour includes visits to 20th Day Paseo de Colon, the Cathedral, Montjuich Gardens, the Ramblas, etc. By plane on the 20th day to Madrid. 21st Day • MADRID - A whole day’s sightseeing of the 22nd Day fascinating Spanish capital includes the world-23rd Day famous Prado Museum, the Bull Ring, Central 24th Day Market, Royal Palace, San Francisco, El Grande, etc. Full day excursion to the old walled city of Toledo. Leave by plane on the 24th day for Lisbon.
25th Day • LISBON — See the King’s Mausoleum, Castle of 26th Day San Jorge, the magnificent Jeronimos Monas-27th Day tery, etc. Leave on 27th day by Pan American Clipper on overnight flight home.
28th Day • NEW YORK — Arrive in the morning.
general conditions
The Airlines concerned are not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyance. The passage contract in use by the Airlines concerned, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the Airlines and the purchaser of these tours and/or passenger.
All arrangements for land accommodations, transportation, and sightseeing are made by Lissone-Lindeman U.S.A. Inc., hereinafter referred to as the management.
The management acts only as an agent for the owners and contractors providing vehicles or transportation or other services, and all tickets are issued subject to any and all terms and conditions under which vehicles or transportation or any other services whatsoever are provided or which may be made by such owners or contractors, and the issuance and acceptance of such tickets shall be deemed to be consent to the further condition that neither the management nor any affiliated or subsidiary company of the management shall be or become liable or responsible in any way in connection with said vehicles or transportation for any loss, injury, or damage to or in respect of any person or property howsoever caused or arisen.
Baggage is at ‘‘owner’s risk" throughout the tour, unless insured.
A deposit of $200 (refundable in the event of cancellation, provided reasonable notice is given) is required, mainly to hold the trans-Atlantic accommodations involved.
The management reserves the right to cancer any tour at any time, in which event all moneys received will be immediately returned.
NOTE—The rates quoted are based upon current tariffs and exchanges, and are subject to adjustment either way in the event of any changes at the time of final payment.
NATHANYA BEACH