Can’t help thinking of the gang back home, probably stopping at a diner along Route 8 . . . about the same time we’re being served a meal fit for royalty. It’s amazing how the stewardesses turn out gourmet meals from the four galleys — the whole plane was served in less than half an hour ... as graciously as anyone could ask!
Venice . . . the Eternal City . . . Germany . . . Belgium . . . Amsterdam . . . oh, it’s been wonderful! And we still have three full days for London. Today, we’re doing the city — Westminster Abbey, the Tower, Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament . . . the works. Tomorrow, a motor tour of Oxford, Stratford-on-Avon and the Shakespeare
And here we are in Paris! Less than 7 hours since we left the U.S.A.! The Browns won’t be at their cottage for another two hours, even if they didn’t have any traffic tie-ups or other trouble on the road.
Ah . . . Paris in the Spring! Or any time, for that matter. Our travel agent tolcl us we could save a couple
country, Warwick Castle. Friday, we’ll sort of wander about on our own. I suppose Molly will do some shopping — the prices over here are wonderful, and we haven’t nearly reached our duty-free limit of purchases.
of hundred dollars by using the Family Fare Plan, good any time between October 15th and March 31st, and next year, we may. But now, we’re here. Oo-la-la! Tonight we take in the Folies Bergere (my choice) . . . tomorrow, the Tuileries Gardens and the Louvre (Molly’s choices) if Molly is through shopping in time!
As we ride out to London airport for our Jet Clipper flight home, I keep remembering our two final days at the lake last year . . . bustling about, cleaning up the cottage, packing the bags, having the car checked at the garage. And then leaving at four in the morning to beat the traffic! What a difference! We enjoyed a delicious
on where we’ll go. Molly’s plumping for another go at Europe, in the Fall when the social season is at its height. I kind of lean toward taking a Jet Clipper to Japan, with its paper houses, pagodas and Mt. Fuji — stopping off for a few days to bask in the sun at Waikiki Beach . . . . . . or perhaps “flying down to Rio,” Montevideo and
breakfast at our hotel (with no cleaning up afterward, of course) and a stroll around Piccadilly Circus before we left for the airport. And we’ll be back in the U.S.A. at five minutes past three this afternoon, New York time. Dreaming our way homeward, we’re already planning for next year’s Jet Clippers vacation. We’re not agreed
Buenos Aires, taking a circle of the Caribbean on the way. I understand there are special excursion fares that will save us several hundred dollars on a ’Round South America trip. Sounds like the ideal way to spend a Winter vacation!
There’s almost no limit to the places we can see in our two or three weeks. And with Pan Am’s Extra Cities Bonus Plan, we can see dozens of fascinating places without paying any extra fare. Who knows, we might even try a Round-the-World tour. With the new freedom of Jet Clipper travel, the world is smaller in time — bigger than ever in opportunity. And this wonderful New Freedom is for us . . . for you . . . for everyone!