Where and when
will YOU begin to enjoy the
NEW FREEDOM?
. . . freedom to travel, to- see, to know the world we live in? Pan Am’s Jet Clippers (Boeing 707’s, Intercontinental Jet Clippers,and tìpnglas DC-8’s) make the most distant destinations as near in time as the “same old^places’Vyou’ve visited year after year. YOU, TOO, CAN BE A WORLD TRAVELER, for business^ pleasure or both, as soon'as^ycm wish.
On extra-fàre President-Speziai flights,' yjjppl enjoy magnificent gourmet meals, complimentary bar service . . . all the amenities of truly high-style travel. And every Jet,^Clipper flight offers low-fare Rainbow or Clipper Thrift Service, top^Either low-fare service offers comfortable reclining seats, delicious food, typically ^Courteous Pan American service.
So whichever way you travel, you’ll beguihenjpyjng your New Freedom the instant you step aboard your Jet Clipper. - Ask your Travel 'Agent or the nearest Pan American office for details . . . today.
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
CAN BE A
WORLD TRAVELER BY JET CLIPPER
Printed -in U.S.A.
R-40
DR-10 59-100

ALL YOU HAVE TO DO w	IS GO!
“You, a world traveler?” our friends sneered, “What will you use for money?” And “Since when do you rate a month’s vacation?”
Molly and I didn’t argue. Our travel agent had already made our reservations . . . our passports were all set . . . our bags nearly packed. Perhaps we should have explained that Europe is only 7 hours away by Jet Clipper .. . that two weeks is more than enough to “do” Europe. And that Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan let us pay only 10% down and GO. But they’d see!
Let them drive up to the lake again this year. We’re out to see the World!
Easy to see, even from outside, hòw these beautiful Jet Clippers have changed the traveler’s world . . . and the world’s travelers. As we walked up the boarding ramp, we couldn’t help but be impressed by the size and the ‘^efficient’’ look of our Jet Clipper. And by the variety ©ifv our fellow passengers . . . retired couples, businessmen, young folks on their first big adventure, and lots of others like ourselves. Truly, everyone can enjoy the New Freedom of Jet Clipper travel.
“Wow!” was all I could say as we zoomed smoothly skyward. I’d flown before, but flying was never like this! It’s like traveling in my own lounge chair . . . real comfort, withouti|| tremor, no engine roar . . . no feeling of speed, despite traveling nearly 600 m.p.h. And the service!, Pan Am has everything organized perfectly from the word “GO.” Who’d ever have dreamed WE could afford luxury like this?