'brazil-nuts
RUBBER
BRA; IL ÑUTÍ
RUBBER
RICE
IUBBER
CARNAUBA
WAX
COTTON
carnauba
WAX
tf'TLE
CHROIV^UM
BERYLLIUM
[DIAMONDS
$AL|XITE
IRON
t COPFEI kNGANESJ
ORANGES
COTTON VEGETABLE OIL
BANANAS
'Hatton @<m¿c¿ou&
gufane
When European adventurers first were contesting the territories of the New World, it became necessary for the Church to establish a line of demarcation between rival Portuguese and Spanish claims. As it happened, the vast territory thus allocated to Portugal made up much of what is today Brazil. Consequently, alone of all the Americas, Brazil shows (in her language and in other respects) the influence of the Portuguese.
This vast nation is nearer to Africa than to the United States, yet her closest ties are with the latter. She shares common borders with all but two of her thirteen neighbors in South America. Brazil is determined to maintain her well-earned and outstanding role in world affairs and international commerce.
Her resources for both war and peace are considered practically unlimited and, once she has overcome certain local difficulties of climate and transportation, can be expected to offer a new frontier for pioneers. Air transport is doing much to bring together all sections of this land of great distances.

Copy
1945
gh»
Pan
Amer
can
rways
® Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
The largest nation in Latin America (even larger
than the U. S.) and fourth largest in the world is the United States of Brazil, a land with vast natural resources, steadily advancing under a dynamic administration.
She has mountains, fertile plantations, rarely-explored jungles, arid but mineral-rich deserts, thriving, cosmopolitan cities, and navigable rivers unrivaled for size and number by those anywhere else in the world.
In her thinly populated 3,300,000 square miles live 42,000,000 people, close to half of the population of all South America. Each of seventeen cities can claim more than 45,000 inhabitants, while 20 major ports serve international sea trade. Nine of every ten Brazilians live in the eastern plateau and upland region.
Brazil’s capital, Rio de Janeiro (the "Paris of the New World”), is the second-largest city in South America. The industrial capital of South America and coffee capital of the ivorld, Sao Paulo, is one of the fastest-growing cities in the world.
About 75% of the population is employed in agriculture, largely in the South, where cattle, sheep, corn, barley, and coal are found. Stock-raising is now a major occupation.
Industrialization on increase • However, a wave
of industrialization, started by the war and expected to continue in peacetime, may call on the talents of many Brazilians. Industrial production has jumped 50% since 1930 and the nation is said to be advancing faster industrially than any other. This is of interest to the United States because this country long has been Brazil’s best customer and she the largest market for U. S. goods in Latin America.
The market for most of Brazil’s 15 major industries is expected to remain largely domestic. These industries are in the fields of foodstuffs, textiles, clothing, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, construction industries, metallurgy, paper and graphic arts, raw-material processing, wood and furniture, machinery, rubber goods, tobacco, leather goods, railroad equipment and vehicles. Under construction or blueprinted are ten major projects for the building or improvement of hydroelectric plants. When finished, these would more than double the present scarcely-adequate electric power capacity. Nearly half of installed electric power capacity is in the industrially-active State of Sao Paulo.
BASIC INDUSTRIES PLANNED • A comprehensive plan for establishing basic industries near central sources of raw materials has been mapped out. The rich northeastern areas would, for example, be aided by erecting a half million kw. power dam on the San Francisco River.
Brazil has not hesitated to gain from her neighbors knowledge that can be applied to local projects.
power, and expansion and modernization of mining operations) is going on, much of it with U. S. assistance.
More than a million square miles of unbroken forests comprise half the great, sparsely-settled Amazon Basin. Here and elsewhere in Brazil are a thousand varieties of trees. Every crop known to man can be produced in Brazil.
The need for raw rubber has again brought into the headlines the name of Manaos, a thousand miles up the mighty Amazon from the nearest important city, but itself a cultured city and once rubber capital of the world.
The story of the difficulties and dangers under which natural rubber is collected and shipped from the wild headwaters of the Amazon, down that mighty river to waiting factories in the U. S., has not yet been told. Pan American World Airways has flown supplies to Manaos and on occasion flown out raw rubber.
Much of a large credit advanced by the U. S. Government to aid Brazil in mobilizing her economic resources is to be earmarked for rubber collection and mining development.
World’s leading coffee producer • Most of
the world’s coffee comes from Brazil, $100,000,000 worth of it in 1941. From extensive fazendas coffee is sent to ocean ports, of which Santos is the greatest and best-known, there to be loaded aboard freighters. There are about three billion cultivated coffee trees in the nation and coffee is the principal normal export of Brazil (followed by cotton, canned meat, hides and skins, cocoa, carnauba wax, castor beans, precious and semi-precious stones, fruits and nuts, and timber).
Brazil’s principal import needs in peacetime have been: machinery and tools, iron and steel manufactures, automobiles, wheat, coal, coke, chemical and pharmaceutical products, vehicles and accessories (other than automobiles), gasoline, iron, steel and raw materials for manufacturing.
Air TRANSPORT • In a land of vast distances like Brazil, air transport easily proves its tremendous value. In addition to the international passenger, mail, and express services of Pan American World Airways, Brazil enjoys its own airline, Panair do Brasil, longest domestic airline in the world and national affiliate of Pan American.
General view of Volta Redonda mill, heart of an expanding steel industry.
Airview of the fastgrowing industrial metropolis of Sao Paulo.
Magnesium ore pours from bins into railroad flat-cars.
The greatest mining boom in Brazil since gold was discovered there in the 18th Century has been under way. Production has multiplied 800% in the last 10 years.
The world’s greatest reserves of iron ore (estimated at 15,000,000,000 of the world’s 72,000,000,000 tons of deposits) are thought to lie beneath Brazil’s soil. To make use of these resources a giant steel mill at Volta Redonda has been erected, expected to supply 60% of domestic needs. These iron ore reserves are valued at billions of cruzeiros to future Brazilians.
Industrial ("black”) diamonds, doubly important in wartime, are mined in the same general area as are quartz crystals. The two are so vital that shipments of both have been rushed by plane to the U. S. More than $50,000,000 worth of gold annually is taken from mines and rivers.
lANY MINERALS PRODUCED • The principal source of much-needed aluminum, bauxite, is extracted from the dry northern deserts. Manganese (which gives steel its hardness), mica, lead, molybdenum, zinc, mercury, beryllium, tungsten, and chromium are other minerals produced in varying amounts.
In the State of Minas Gerais, sometimes called "one of the greatest mineral areas in the world,” and in the neighboring State of Espirito Santo a full-scale development program (health, housing, food, transportation, hydro-electric
Enorm ously-raluahl e 1 ant alit e is washed (right), then sun-dried.
Pan American Clipper lands at Manaos with supplies and technicians for rubber plantations.
The Ministry of Labor, Industry, and Commerce in Rio de Janeiro.