
„
Unusual view of Rio’s famous harbor	Changing of the guard in Santiago
CONDITIONS
RESERVATIONS: Deposit of $50.00 required when reservation is requested. Balance three weeks before departure. In event of cancellation, deposit will be refunded. If cancellation is close to departure time, refund will be made less any service or cancellation charge by hotels, cost of cables, etc.
TICKETS: Special 17-day Excursion Fare on Tri-Co Tour #1 to Peru; special 30-day Excursion Fare on Tri-Co Tour #3 Around South America. No extensions can be made beyond the time specified from gateway to gateway without payment of additional fare.
BAGGAGE: Free transportation of 66 lbs. of baggage per person except on the Cuzco Extension, on which it is 55 lbs. Two suitcases per person will be handled free of charge by our local representatives, on transfers between airport and hotel.
MEALS: Not included, except for special dinner in Lima and special luncheon in Rio. Two meals a day (breakfast and/or dinner) can be arranged for in Lima at 35 Soles (about $2.30 at current exchange) if so desired. Payable directly to hotel and subject to change.
TRANSFERS: Included throughout, as indicated in itineraries. Not included in the United States.
TAXES: U.S. transportation tax from hometown to gateway and back, not included. Taxes on hotels in South America included.
GRATUITIES: Tips and gratuities of a personal nature not included.
PASSPORTS AND VISAS: Citizens of the United States must have a valid passport, smallpox vaccination certificate, general health certificate and police certificate. Visas, transit or tourist cards are required for certain countries. Full information will be provided by your travel agent.

It’s delightfully cool in South America
HOTELS: Panama: El Panama; Lima: Gran Bolivar or Crillon; Santiago: Carrera or Crillon; Buenos Aires: City, Plaza or Alvear Palace; Montevideo: Nogaro or Victoria Plaza; Rio de Janeiro: Novo Mundo; Regente, California, Miramar, Excelsior, Gloria. Half of double room with bath. Single rates on application.
RESPONSIBILITY: C ruise Corner/Travel Arrangements and or their agents, act only as agent for the airlines, hotels, transfer and sightseeing companies. No responsibility is accepted for personal injury, delay, accident or loss of personal property or for additional expenses caused by circumstances beyond our control. The right is reserved to make changes in the itineraries and services should circumstances necessitate such changes. Rates are based on the current value of foreign currencies and are subject to change in event of fluctuation of such currencies in relation to the United States dollar at time of final payment.
The airlines concerned are not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyances. The passage contract in use by the Airlines concerned, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the Airlines and the purchaser of these tours and/or passenger.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT IS:

vv -V	!
*. : m

■ ft V
f 'Tfrf * •
ROUND
The famous Cathedral at Lima
PERU
SOUTH AMERICA
AIR TRAVEL VIA
AN AMERICAN and PANAGRA
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS PAN AMERICAH-GRACE AIRWAYS
MAY 1 TO OCTOBER 31, 1952
///
XTRA DAYS...
TRI-CORNER TOURS are trips for the lazy . . . for those "free souls" who refuse to "dash around" on their vacations. They are for those who want to see and enjoy ... to really KNOW strange and foreign lands. At today's excursion fares, it isn't necessary to embark on a merry-go-round ... to rush breathlessly around with the feeling that you had better see every country on the South American continent in two or three weeks since you may not be able to afford another trip down there. The cost is about the same as the average West Indies trip and many people take one of those every year until they have covered all of the islands. Now the door is wide open to a similar policy on South America.
EXTRA FEATURES
AIR TRAVEL via the Pan American World Airways System's famous scheduled tourist service means that your fun begins the moment you step aboard your giant four-engine airliner. You'll relax in lazy leisure in the comfortable reclining seat of your home in the sky. You will enjoy delicious meals served enroute free of charge and arrive at each new exciting place in South America refreshed and ready to get the most out of your adventure. There's a liberal free baggage allowance of 66 pounds and now for a limited time you can take advantage of the lowest fares ever offered on flights between the United States and South America.
Scene of Plane interior