Modern Buenos Aires
Machu Picchu, Peru
Dancing at Bolivar Hotel, Lima
Bring back a sarape from Chile
CORNER TOURs I p e
From Miami and return thereto (Mondays)........'.............$ 980
From Houston or New Orleans to Miami.........................$1005*
From New York and return thereto (Mondays)...................$1045*
From Los Angeles, return to Miami............................$1073*
‘Plus tax between hometown and U.S. Gateway.
1st day Adventure beckons. The powerful wings of your Pan American Tourist Clipper lift your plane skyward. Soon you arrive at SAN JUAN. Transfer provided to fine hotel.
2nd day SAN JUAN. You will enjoy an interesting sightseeing trip including the old and new city, and the suburbs of Santurce and Rio Piedras. Afternoon at leisure.
3rd day	Back on your Pan American plane, you fly over the
t°	Leeward and Windward Islands, stopping briefly at
11th day Trinidad, the Guianas and Belem. As the morning light awakens you, the glorious harbour of Rio de Janeiro spreads before your enchanted gaze. High on Corcovado the statue of Christ the Redeemer spreads protecting arms over the scene. Famous Sugar Loaf Mountain, the Rio skyline and beaches greet you.
RIO DE JANEIRO. Transfer on arrival to excellent hotel. Accommodation with bath. During your stay, use your coupon for the following:
a.	City sightseeing trip, the climax of which will be the ascent by cablecar to the top of Sugar Loaf. You will be surprised to find a charming little park at the top.
b.	Luncheon at the Sky Terrace, with a view over the harbour. SHOPPING: Rio is noted for its precious and semi-precious stones — topazes, amethysts, zircons, sapphires and diamonds.
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION: When you want to go downtown in Rio, hail a "Lotacao," which costs 4 Cruzeiros, or a bus, which is 3 Cruzeiros at present. If you have only a 5-Cruzeiro note, don't ask for change. Just let it go.
11th day Leave Rio de Janeiro by Pan American Tourist Clipper for MONTEVIDEO, most democratic of the South American nations. Transfer on arrival to good hotel. Evening at leisure.
In MONTEVIDEO you will enjoy a sightseeing trip including the business and shopping centers, Plaza Independencia, Monument to Artigas (founder of the Uruguayan Republic) 18 de Julio Avenue, "Rambla" Wilson (waterfront) to Rodo Park, Ramirez Beach, etc.
Check with our representative to see if he has a seat in a car available for a full-day trip to Punta del Este. This will be much less expensive for you than making arrangements in the U.S.
15th day Time to leave Montevideo by Pan American Tourist to	Clipper. Arrive BUENOS AIRES. Transfer to hotel.
20th day Evening at leisure.
Not only do many of the broad avenues and narrow streets remind one of Paris, but women will be intrigued by the advance French styles which are often "tried out" in Buenos Aires before being brought to the United States.
At first you may be startled at the many pictures of President Juan Peron and his wife but as you spend a few days in Argentina and "forget" politics, you will be interested in the workers' villages, the large outdoor swimming pools, the hospitals, the "Ciudad Infantil," the model airport, the warehouses full of clothing for the poor, the "beehive of industry" that is Argentina. Perhaps you will reflect: "Who knows? Surely it is a good thing to help those in need. The politics of a country are strictly none of my business — especially on my vacation!"
Sightseeing in Buenos Aires includes the principal points of interest .. . the Casa Rosada (House of the President), the Plaza de Mayo, the Calle Florida, Palermo, etc.
We suggest you see our representative about a trip to "El Tigre" including a delightful excursion by launch through the canals of the Parana Delta.
SHOPPING: Suedes, leather goods, shoes, gloves, nutria coats. 20th day Board a new Panagra DC-6B, most modern of Tourist to	planes. Fly over the Andes. Arrive SANTIAGO. You
22nd day will be met and transferred to your hotel.
Evening at leisure. Find out whether the changing of the guard will take place in the square the next morning because this is a sight rivalling the Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace in London. The Chilenos make handsome soldiers.
Santiago is surrounded by snow-capped mountains. Your sightseeing trip will show you the Presidential Palace, the Parque Forestal, Cathedral, Santa Lucia Hill, race course, etc., but involuntarily, your eyes will seek those incredible mountains.
1st day The longed-for day arrives. Off you go in your glistening Pan American World Airways "Tourist Clipper" headed for Panama. Transfer provided. Hotel accommodation with bath.
2nd day PANAMA. An interesting sightseeing trip is included.
3rd day Morning at leisure. Transfer to airport. Soon you are winging your way in a fine Panagra DC-6B Tourist Plane down the west coast of South America. You cross the Equator as you fly over Ecuador. The steward will bring you a card to complete so that, on your return home, you may receive a certificate proving to all and sundry that you have been accepted into the Empyrean Realm of His Exalted Majesty, Jupiter Rex.
Close to midnight the twinkling lights of Lima will appear. Lima has a magnificent airport. You will thrill in anticipation of glorious days in the land of the Incas and of Pizzaro.-Transfer provided. Hotel accommodation with bath.
During your stay in Lima you will enjoy the following trips:
a.	City sightseeing trip, including the exquisite Cathedral of Lima, the Plaza de Armas where the imposing residence of Peru's President is located; the University of San Marcos; the Torre Tagle Palace, whose construction was begun in 1730.
b.	The Inca ruins of Pachacamac.
c.	A night club tour. Dinner first, at an excellent restaurant, then a visit to one or more of Lima's smart night clubs.
d.	Drive to Chosica, charming mountain resort.
SPANISH LESSONS
As a courtesy, there will be three Spanish lessons available to you. They will be mainly "drills" in everyday terms, asking directions, ordering food, buying souvenirs, etc. You will find them eminently useful.
PURCHASES
Plenty of time to buy lovely, pure silver articles, llama fur articles, gay Peruvian hats and many other things. Lima is "silver town."
13th day Regretfully, you say good-bye to Lima and leave for home in your four-motor Panagra Tourist plane (one of the new DC-6B's).
14th day Scheduled to arrive Miami, New Orleans, Houston or Los Angeles. Connecting flight to New York or to point nearest your hometown.
IMPORTANT NOTE
To keep your costs down and at the same time provide many interesting trips for you, sightseeing has been arranged on a "seat in car" basis. This means that you must telephone our Lima representative or drop in at his office to verify when any particular trip will be available. In this manner, you will enjoy your sightseeing trips with other people, which is much more fun than going alone with a guide at greater cost.
CUZCO EXTENSION
Fri. Leave Lima via Faucett Airliner for Cuzco, in the very heart of Incaland. Transfer to hotel where room with bath and meals will be provided. General sightseeing trip in the afternoon.
Sat. Leave for incredible Machu Picchu. This trip is by 7-passenger rail-car, with the last 30-minute climb by truck with seats, or mule. Return to Cuzco in the evening.
Sun. Half-day trip to the Indian Market at Pisac. Here one finds some of the most colorful costumes in all of Peru.
Mon. Return by Faucett 4-motor plane to Lima.
CUZCO EXTENSION RATES
$130.00 for each of 2 persons sharing a room; $145.00 single. Hotel accommodation, meals in Cuzco and sightseeing included, also air transportation. Meals in Machu Picchu and Pisac not included.
14-DAY CRUISE
‘Plus tax from hometown to U.S. Gateway and back.
From Miami and return thereto (Tue. & Fri.).........
From New York and return thereto (Tue. & Fri.)......
rom New Orleans and/or Houston and return (Thu.) From Los Angeles and return thereto (Fri.)..........
.$410
.$496*
.$495*
.$652*
On the sands at Copacabana
Silver tempts you in Lima shops
A trip to Vina del Mar may be arranged at your expense, if desired, and is extremely worthwhile.
22nd day	Take off from Santiago's airport on a Panagra DC-6B.
to	You are now on your way to LIMA, city of Pizzaro. As
27th day you wing past "El Misti" at 19,000 feet, you will know that the "City of Kings" is not far away.
LIMA. Your 'plane lands gracefully and you will be impressed by the ultra-modern airport. Our representative will meet you and see you safely to your hotel.
There is much to see. Contact our representative about this as your sightseeing will be on a "seat-in-car" basis. You will have coupons for a trip to many points of interest in Lima; a visit to the National Museum, with its wealth of Inca relics; also for a night club trip which will start with dinner at an excellent restaurant. A trip to Cuzco is not included but can be arranged if desired.
SHOPPING: Lima is the place to buy silver — bracelets, ear-rings, platters and other lovely souvenirs, also llama mats and rugs.
27th day As you leave beautiful Lima, you vow to return again before long.
28th day PANAMA. Arrive Tocumen Airport in the early morning, to	Transfer provided to the new El Panama Hotel.
29th day After a nap you will be ready for your half-day sightseeing trip.
29th day Leave PANAMA by Pan American Airways Tourist Clipper.
WHEN YOU SAY "HASTA LUEGO" TO SOUTH AMERICA, YOU REALLY MEAN IT!
29th day
Arrive MIAMI. Tour ends.