Pan Am’s Boarding Pass.
It’s worth a free round-trip ticket when you buy one at full fare to any of these exciting Pan Am destinations:4
Australia, Chile, Germany, Guam, Guatemala, India, Kenya, Mexico,
New Zealand, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Thailand, and the Philippines. Offer good to one or more destinations.. .even around-the-world.
Fly Pan Am anywhere in the continental U.S.A. between September 14 and October 24,1981. Save your 2 FOR 1 Boarding Pass and passenger ticket coupon. They’re worth money to you. Because you can redeem them for a free round-trip ticket for a member of your family, traveling with you on Pan Am, when you purchase one round-trip in Clipper1’ Class or full-fare Economy Class to any of the selected Pan Am destinations you choose... even around-the-world!
Take along a family member. That’s the whole idea. Redeem your 2 FOR 1 Boarding Pass anytime after September 14. Then plan to travel anytime between October
25.1981,	and May 31,1982, with the exception of the peak-travel period between December 15,1981, and January
15.1982.
Just remember, you must travel together for all portions of the trip, and, in the same class of service. The family member with you must be a husband, wife, parent (natural, step, adoptive or legal guardian) or one child (natural, step, adoptive or legal ward). Common-law spouses or two siblings traveling together are not eligible, and children, regardless of age, are considered full-fare status passengers.
Fly Clipper Class or Economy Class. This boarding pass can be redeemed only for travel in either Clipper Class (where available) or full-fare Economy Class to the Pan Am selected destinations. Passengers traveling on industry discounts and charters are not eligible.
Start your trip from any Pan Am city in the continental U.S.A. And purchase a round-trip, circle or open-jaw trip, but travel must originate and conclude in the continental U.S.A. Offer is valid only on Pan Am flights.
Your travel agent or Pan Am Ticket Office will redeem this * All destinations subject to Government approval.
offer upon presentation of your validated 2 FOR 1 Boarding Pass and passenger ticket coupon. Be sure to save them... they’re worth money to you!
Your 2 FOR 1 Boarding Pass and passenger ticket coupon are transferable to a second party, not necessarily a family member. However, redemption by purchaser must be made for a family member, as specified.
Other conditions. Fares are not combinable but tickets may be cross-referenced end-to-end with other tickets (to avoid currency surcharges on extentions to off-line points). And fares must be “broken” at approved destinations.
Voluntary rerouting applies to the purchased ticket. It will be applied to the free ticket only if all destinations/ travel conditions are met.
Denied Boarding Compensation will apply to the purchased ticket but not to the free ticket.
Redemption around-the-world applies as long as selected destination(s) are included.
Unused portions of free tickets have no value and cannot be honored for refund or in exchange for other transportation.
Schedules/routes are subject to change/ cancellation without notice.
That’s it. Pan Am’s 2 FOR 1 Promotion. Your chance to get one free ticket for a family member when you buy one ticket to any of 13 great Pan Am overseas destinations... and around-the-world.
For more information, see your Travel Agent,
Corporate Travel Department or call Pan Am.