Or maybe a tour...
... of the world’s most exciting places at the world’s most exciting prices. Fly to ... wine, dine and live in ... tour around the paradises that please you. And fly home again — all for one low fare. You’ll see how low in just a moment.
This is the way to make sure you get right to the heart of the places to be. All arrangements are handled for you. Reservations, accommodations, sightseeing, parties, tips. You travel on your own or with a congenial group of people who are interested in the same things you are. And your guide is an expert who “knows the territory.” So you know you’re in good hands.
Of course tour selecting is as flexible as you want it to be. You can travel with one for as long as it fits your itinerary ... then meet another and go on with it. You’ll find each one designed in a nice balance of the hectic and the leisurely. Planned activity and free time.
And all this at a cost that is only slightly higher than the air fare alone. For example, 7 days in Hawaii (including the flight) costs as little as $262 from the West Coast. That’s only sixty-two dollars more than the round trip air fare. Or a 15-day Oriental Adventure, taking in all of the most exciting attractions in Japan, for only $1323 from West Coast cities.
You just can’t afford to stay at home!
We ll do
the work
That’s what we’re here for. All year long you’re busy. Let your vacation come easy. Whether you go “guided” or “on your own” let Pan Am and your Travel Agent handle the detail work.
You’ll come up with a soundly thought-out travel plan. And if you want to make some changes on route, go right ahead. Wherever you are in the world, contact the local Pan Am people. They’ll be glad to work with you in changing flight reservations.

Pay now or later
Another easy-going aspect. Paying may not be the most pleasurable part of your trip ... but now it’s not painful, either.
For easy end-of-the-month billing, just flash your Air Travel Card. Or to spread payment over as many as 24 months there’s the Pan Am pay later plan. As little as ten percent down, and you’re up in the air — off on your idyllic vacation. What’s more you can put practically your whole trip “on the tab” if you like. Transportation, hotels, car rentals, meals, purchases — all over the world.
3