islands. Indulge in the mysteries of Chinese dining in its birthplace.
The city is full of sport and social clubs. Be sure to ask at the local Pan Am office for visitors’ cards. That way you’ll get an immediate entree.
There are hotels in every bracket. Every degree of elegance. The new Mandarin is one of the most luxurious in the Far East. Fully air conditioned ... rooftop swimming pool... each room with a private balcony overlooking the harbor or Victoria Peak. Rates are in the $15-$26 range, double. There are other good hotels with rates as low as $7.
The land of the eternal bow
Japanese courtesy was choreographed centuries ago. It’s formal, rigid and ritualistic. And yet, they really mean it. Courtesy is a very real part of this remarkable culture.
In Tokyo, good western-style hotels have rates around $10 for two. But you ought to try — at least for a night — one of the many spotless ryokans. Rooms are entire suites with private verandah, sliding paper screen interior walls, plush floor mats for beds ... and meals served in your suite. Charming. And remarkably comfortable. (Remember to remove your shoes when entering.)
There are resorts throughout the country. Lush. Placid. Intriguing. Each with a particular character. Everything from skiing to hot mineral springs. And the trip to any one of them is awesome. Nature at its most artful.
Festivals are fantastic. And it would be pretty hard to be in Japan and not be around for at least one. They celebrate the existence of just about everything. Adults. Culture. Flowers. Dolls. Children. Equinox Day (both of them). Bean throwing. Moon watching.
There’s so much to do here that you’ll never have enough time — no matter how long you stay. But even if it’s only a few days you’ll do and see and hear and eat things you’ll remember always. Kobe steaks from cattle massaged daily to make them tender. A two-hour bath that will make you just as tender. Works of art dating back to the “small centuries” of the calendar. Kabuki theatre, vibrant with oriental symbolism and profound restraint.
But...
There’s a side to Japan — Tokyo in particular — that couldn’t get further from restraint.
It’s a side that has tossed away the parasol and fan, the white rice powder and dainty step — and gone wild! The beat is big .. . and the costumes are small. Not really West — or East. But a leggy hybrid that can never be exported. It’s more than just noise and people and music. It’s Tokyo on a toot... and you’re invited.
There are hundreds of cafes, bars and night clubs. The Queen Bee ... Crown ... New Latin Quarter — to start your list. Expect a cover charge of some sort... varying with the elaborateness of the show. Roughly around 600 yen (about $1.70) to 3000 yen (a little over $8). For the most part people find they get at least their money’s worth.
You shouldn’t be bothered by language in Japan. English is understood in hotels, many restaurants and stores. And excellent guides are always available at reasonable cost.
Move up to down under
Australia can give you the most stimulating vacation possible. It’s bold, fresh and vibrant. And the South Pacific Islands make perfect stepping stones.
Try this for size. From our West Coast to Tahiti. Then New Zealand, Australia, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii ... and home. Dillydally where and for as long as you like. The Extra Cities Plan takes care of all that.
Bet you come home with a brand spanking new feeling about the whole world. You’ll have seen just about everything there is. You’ll have been amazed, refreshed, relaxed and recharged. No fooling.
Here’s the way it would be.
9