The uncontainable continent
Australia is bursting. The last of the “new worlds’’ — in the prime of life. Recently people have been pouring in from all over the earth to make this their home. With them they bring technology, charm, grace — to be piled onto the abundance of everything that’s been here all along.
Australia is busy, boisterous and consummately proud of itself. With every reason. It’s vast, vigorous and perpetually active. You can’t possibly be disappointed. The people are warm and hospitable. And so is the climate.
The “sunshine continent” brims with beaches, streams, fjords, golf courses, ski slopes. And all practically within shouting distance. You can ski at Mt. Kosciusko National Park not far from Sydney. (Best season from July to October). A few hours later you can be stretched out on a sandy beach, frying in the sun. That’s Australia — delightful contrasts.
Sydney
Cosmopolitan. Bristling with action. Hotels from $10 double to around $20. The city is flanked on both sides with hundreds of miles of beach resorts. In the center of town is Hyde Park—lush with flowers. Then there’s the Zoological Gardens — a zoo that defies logic. The nuttiest animals in the world call it home. Kangaroo, koala, wallaby, platypus. The laughing kookaburra bird. The impersonating lyre ... and huge emu. Cockatoos, parrots and penguins.
Around Kings Cross you’ll bump smack into the largest lingual hubbub since the Tower of Babel. It’s a symbol of the universality of Sydney. Another symbol is the restaurants. The best of about every country in the world. Accompany international delicacies with domestic Australian wines. They rightly claim to rival even the finest French vintages.
Melbourne and elsewhere
Urbane. Elegant. A moment of Edwardian graciousness in your trip. Sleep late in Melbourne. Then meet the day with the kind of deliberate dignity you can’t find anywhere else in this century.
For the finest in modern comfort and service, stop at the IHC Southern Cross. And to recapture the Edwardian flavor, visit the Windsor, a venerable hotel that envelops you in the grand manner. Spacious comfort and personal service that all but vanished with the coming of the push-button. Out in the city you’ll find broad, tree-lined boulevards ... gardens . . . shops . . . restaurants — where whatever you choose is choice.
Australia has hundreds of other “personalities.” Tasmania— a verdant, misty spot akin to Ireland. Adelaide — a modern, orderly city ... at the hub of the cattle country. Northern Territory — safari country where big game is the-name-of-the-game.
The great barrier reef...
... sounds foreboding. But isn’t. 1200 miles of coral reef stretching along the Queensland coast. Coves, islands, beaches — beautifully unspoiled. And resorts to service them all.
11