Deep in the heart of downtown paradise
Tahiti is the land of barefoot sophistication. French savoir-faire lavishly laced with unquenchable Polynesian gaiety. Tahiti is 71/2 hours from Los Angeles by Pan Am Jet Clipper... but you could as easily measure the difference in light years.
It’s 402 square miles of unreality. Really. The setting is unspoiled splendor. The mood is uncompromising nonchalance. And in the midst of all this, you’ll be provided every modern convenience.
Hotels feature well-spaced guest bungalows set in verdant gardens. Rates are a little higher than on some other islands ... but then, this is paradise. As a rule of thumb, double rooms start around $12... and climb to about $25.
When the sun is up the place to be is near the water — which is never far away. But when the moon takes over, the splashing moves indoors. Start your evening with a delicious French dinner. Then dance, laugh, talk and dream the night away. La vie en rose.
At even the most posh spots the only nod to formality is long trousers in the evening. Sport shirts never retire. Oh, and wear shoes — if you really want to.
Incidentally, tipping is strictly prohibited by law. There are few violations.
Nature's "light touch '
New Zealand is a beautiful expression of humor. A thousand miles long, three hundred wide... and full of nature at its most unusual. Up north near the equator you’ll see steaming cliffs, boiling lakes, mud volcanoes. Down south, pompous penguins and icebergs!
Even a short hike is a complete adventure. You’ll consistently stumble across the inconsistent. And always in dramatic settings. Birds that can’t fly. Birds that can talk. Survivors from the dinosaur age. Even in the cities nature is irrepressible. Auckland alone bows to it 31 times with parks and reserves.
And sports! Trout and big-game fishing — the best anywhere. Unlimited deer for the hunter. All cities and towns have good golf courses. And, of course, there’s swimming, boating, surfing ... and skiing. The possibilities are so varied you’ll need both tropical and warm clothing to take it all in.
Government sponsored tours are widely ranged, remarkable ... and inexpensive. Food — which is excellent— is low-priced ... as are accommodations. Car rentals are available, but the most pleasant way to travel through the country is by chauffeur-driven limousine. Your driver will make sure you don’t miss any bits of natural intrigue, and there’s so much to see every mile that being a spectator is a full-time job.
10