Where to ask about "where to go"
Drop in to the Hawaiian Visitors Bureau at Waikiki anytime. They’re always ready with suggestions. There’s a festival of some sort, somewhere, just about every day of the year. It’s the way of life.
And there’s enough subject matter to keep dozens of tour guides permanently hoarse. Flowers. Mountains. Beaches. Harbors. Primitive and modern art. Name it... you’ll find someone to take you there. Or point it out.
You’ll love it.
Hawaii is like nothing else in the world
BUT SO IS EVERYTHING ALL OVER THE PACIFIC
And Pan Am makes it easy to take in all, or as much of it as you want. The gimmick is the Extra Cities Bonus Plan. Use it to get you in and out of islands and continents at no extra cost.
Buy a regular round trip ticket to the farthest point you want to visit. Without any extra fare whatsoever, you can stop off at any of the touchdown points en route — coming or going.
For example, Australia. Buy your ticket to Sydney and climb aboard. Then on the way out — or back — or both ... go native in Hawaii, Samoa, Fiji, New Zealand, as well as Australia. Take as long as you like. Up to a year. Longer than that and you’d probably decide not to come back anyway.
Your Travel Agent will help you eke every mile of pleasure from your time and money allotment. Tell him your limitations and he’ll do wonders. Possibly the impossible.
Where the twain meet
Over here on the left-hand side of the Pacific East meets West. The upshot is exotic. Enchanting.
There are places that have been preparing for centuries ... for your arrival. Never-never lands. Sights and sounds you won’t get out of your mind — ever. Incredibly sincere hospitality and concern for your comfort. Paradoxes beyond counting. Timeless subtlety next door to the wildest spectacle of the instant.
Pan Am will get you there any instant you like. And via the Extra Cities Bonus Plan you can have your fill of the inscrutable East at entirely scrutable savings.
A good trip is the loop stopping at Hawaii, the Philippines, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan ... and then home. Or try it counter-clockwise — hitting Japan first. Either way you’d be using the Extra Cities Plan to your best advantage.
Remember, the pace is yours to set. The Extra Cities Plan allows you as long as a year to make the loop. So if one spot captures your fancy and you decide to dawdle a while — go right ahead. The Pan Am people there will be glad to change your reservations — both for flights and hotels farther along your route.
On the threshold
The Philippines are a marvelous blend of East and West. The regal urbanity of Spain and the light-
7