Those fellows at customs
There are two kinds — theirs and ours. Don’t be alarmed by either. The man at customs is there to protect his country from unwanted goods and people. But for the ordinary tourist he represents little more than a simple formality.
Theirs
He knows you’re going to be spending money in his country, and as the reception committee it’s only natural he wants to make you well disposed to do just that. He’ll probably look at your passport and vaccination papers, stamp your visa if one is required, and maybe ask if you have anything to declare. Many countries have a limit on personal items you can bring in. A carton of cigarettes. A bottle of liquor. Anything over the limit will cost a slight duty.
The same goes for purchases you are bringing back from other countries. But there’s a way around that. As you buy, simply mail the gifts to friends at home. You can do it as often as you want, provided each package is not valued at more than ten dollars ... and not more than one a day is addressed to the same person. (Be sure to mark “GIFT” on each package.) You save duty, tax and luggage space as well.
Ours
American Customs Regulations are based on common sense. There’s nothing tricky about them .. . and they’re quite liberal. Basically, you’re allowed to bring home a hundred dollars’ worth of goods dutyfree. If you’re traveling in a family group the exemptions of each member can be lumped together—if it suits you better. Incidentally, the “mailed-back” parcels mentioned above don’t count against your hundred-dollar exemption — and don’t even have to be declared.
There are items that are strictly barred. Anything from Communist China or North Korea cannot be brought in under any circumstances. In addition, any Chinese-type articles produced in other countries will not be allowed in without a certificate of origin. And there are other things that may be questioned. Plants, pets, food and some Trade-Marked items.
If you have any doubts check with a U.S. consulate before you buy.
Declare everything. Even clothes you bought abroad and have already worn. U.S. Customs men are too good at their jobs to miss much of anything. On the other hand, they’re not there to harass. If you’re honest with them, you’ll find them more than fair.
Depending on where you go, you’ll encounter a variety of currencies. But if you arm yourself with a good up-to-date currency converter you should do very well. You can get one at any Pan Am office that will show at a glance the dollar and cents equivalents for the lands you are going to visit. Then, with a few minutes of homework on the plane before you land in each new country, you’ll be ready.
The best way to carry the bulk of your “capital” is in Travelers Checks. They’re loss-proof, theft-proof, inexpensive and cashable just about anywhere. A good idea is to buy them in both large and small denominations. Large for standard expenses such as hotel bills ... and small for meals and shopping. By having both, you won’t be stuck with a lot of local currency just as you’re leaving a country.
Many countries around the Pacific provide moneychanging facilities right atthe airport. .. which makes life easy for initial expenses such as a bite to eat at the airport or taxi rides to your hotel. But just in case, carry a supply of American one-dollar bills — which are coveted almost everywhere.
Current, as well as currency, can be pretty hilarious
Electric current is far from standard around the world. AC ... DC . .. and quite often at voltages that would burn up American-made appliances. If you use an electric shaver, you’ll either have to go back to lather, let your beard grow ... or carry an adapter or a special “traveler’s shaver.” Many stores carry them, for use with erratic currents. The same for immersion heaters, coffeepots, irons and hair dryers. They’re not too expensive — and are a great convenience.
13