hearted happiness of the warm Pacific meld delightfully. Hotels are a dream. Informality and gracious hospitality are the way of life. English is generally spoken .. . you’ll feel right at home despite the bizarre, lavish scenery.
Casual clothes will get you in just about anywhere, except evenings at the most exclusive clubs and hotels. Don’t let the word “exclusive” confuse you. It doesn’t mean expensive. Even right on Manila Bay you can live sumptuously for about what it would cost to stay at home. From as little as $4.13 double.
And shopping is only the beginning. You can bag a tiger over on the Malay Peninsula. Or shoot fabulous photos from the hip. Minarets and parapets and muezzins and mosques are posing right now .. . waiting for you to give them F-8 at one-twenty-five.
What’s more there’s golf, tennis, fishing, swimming, water skiing, yachting, sailing, badminton and squash for starters. And the best weather on earth to do it in. Always summer. No rainy season. Nothing to avoid. Just sunny, tropical days ... and delightful cool evenings.
April and May are the warmest months. If you arrive then, tool right on down to Tagaytay City — a breathtaking resort. It’s only an hour’s drive from Manila. Weekday rates at the Taal Vista Lodge are an equally breath-taking $5.00 for two. (They nearly double on weekends, but even at that it’s almost unbelievable.)
As for the rainy season, it comes roughly between June and November. It’s generally interspersed with good sunny weather. .. but you’ll probably only want to stay a short while during the season. On the other hand, at these prices it would be a shame not to drop in when you’re in the neighborhood.
The city of "Sling"
As for getting around, the roads are excellent. Chauf-feured or you-drive-it cars are plentiful and inexpensive. Taxis abound . . . but use trishaws for the novelty. The rates are about the same . .. and the memories are at least double.
Come-and-get-it-ville
Need a new suit? Or a brand new “old thing” to slay them at the country club dance? Then touch down at Hong Kong.
It’s free of import duties ... which means you can get yard goods by practically just wishing hard. And you won’t believe what they can do with a needle over here .. . even to allowing for the few ounces you plan to gain before getting home.
The Singapore Sling is hardly the most famous figurehead of this incredible city. But it is appropriate. According to the handy bartender’s guide, the Sling is a potent and lively concoction. The secret is in the blending.
And that’s Singapore to a tee. You’ll find a fascinating blend of people and things from just about everywhere. A list of them sounds like a drumroll prelude to the exotic. Malays, Chinese, Europeans, the Kada-zans, the Dusans, the Land and Sea Dyaks, the Muruts, Indians, Pakistanis, Eurasians. And although they come to Singapore, they never leave home. You’ll find the customs, dress, cultures, festivals and traditions of the whole world in this fascinating microcosm.
And you’ll find the shops, bazaars and streets teeming with goods. Try out your craftiness in Change Alley — where the natives barter. Bemoan the already low prices and you may even manage to have them slashed in half.
These tailors don’t know how to go wrong. In a matter of hours they can turn cloth into clothes that will fit only you. And you’ll wonder how they can live on what they charge.
While you’re waiting for your wardrobe to be finished you can enjoy this most picturesque and colorful Chinese city. Exquisite taste is evidenced at every step. Visit the Tiger Balm Garden. The Chinese temples. Tram up to Victoria Peak. Cruise to the outer
8