If you want to fish, surf, explore or laze — the Reef will provide you the right setting. Think about a 5-day boat trip from MacKay. About resorts for sporting days and sporty nights. Or about spots where you can just be you ... alone in time.
Cliche-land
“Picture postcard.” “South Seas Dreamland.” “Sleepy Lagoon, Tropical Moon . . You’ve heard them all. But here they’re all true. So what are you going to do?
Step into Fiji. The postcard comes alive with sounds and smells and tempo. Island music floats across palmed inlets. Tropical birds scream nonsense. Vivid flowers vie for your attention. (As do the duty-free shops.)
Sleep on the beach if you like. Or somewhere like the Korolevu Beach Hotel, with its airy thatched bures, each with private bath. Rates, about $16 per person, include meals. The grand old Grand Pacific Hotel — set off by tropical gardens right in the center of Suva — provides an air-conditioned view of the harbor. A view which alone is worth the trip. It’s a movie set with luxury liners lying alongside trading schooners and inter-island boats.
Take one over to Ovalau. There, install yourself in the Royal Hotel ($7.46 with meals) — and lapse into “Fiji-omnia.” In the advanced stages of this much sought-after disease, ladies throw away their curlers, men let their beards grow — and figure they’ve done a full day’s work.
And if it’s like living in a picture postcard, so what?
The inducement
If you’re ever going to get yourself to leave Fiji, it will be through the promise of something like Samoa.
And since Samoa itself is so handy on the Extra City route, drop on in. The people are famous for, among other things, their happy dispositions. When you get here you’ll see why.
But while this idyllic location is great for getting you out of Fiji ... how are you going to pry yourself from here? Run out of money, maybe. That’ll take some time. Hotel living at the Pago Pago Intercontinental runs between eight and twelve dollars a day. And that’s with all you can eat. Live in private homes for even less.
And it’s a beautiful neighborhood. Green mountains burst from the sea. Bays and fjords make a coastline drive an excursion into wonderland. Deep sea fishing is challenging and rewarding. Skin diving will open up vistas of incredible coral formations. And always perfect weather.
From Pago Pago in U.S. Samoa sail over to Upolu Island in the Western part — independent since 1962. It’s burning with tropical flowers ... and running with rivers and waterfalls. Living is just as inexpensive.
Beware. Leaving is going to be a little sad. Except that when you get home you’ll be the talk of the town. And you’ll have enough dreams and memories to assure that some day you’ll come back.
12