Our incredible fiftieth state
Getting to Hawaii is as easy as rolling down hill. Like the enchanted forest, it’s leaving that presents the problem. Hawaii is the State of the present tense. Every moment is a buoyant interlude between interludes.
Everything comes easily. Laughter. Music. Friendships. Parties. And just living.
You can spend any amount for accommodations. Splash it up in a plush suite for $150 a day. Or spread it out for $16 — with kitchenette, or even less. Whatever you pay, you probably won’t use your rooms much. Hawaii is out-doors. And that’s where you’ll find yourself.. . doing, watching or watching the watchers.
For maybe a day-and-a-half you’ll be a tourist. After that, a native. Matter of fact, as soon as you realize the people really are that glad to have you on their island, you’re no longer a malihini — a newcomer. From there, it gets progressively harder to leave.
There are hundreds of things that people will say you absolutely must do. See the Outer Islands .. . Pearl Harbor... the Big Island ... Upside-Down Falls. Try surfing ... hula dancing ... hiking. Go to a luau and eat poi (you may even like it). But the point is, you don’t have to “do” anything to have the time of your life.
Meandering is a favorite pastime. Step from your hotel into one of the great spectacles of the world. The expanse of Waikiki punctuated by Diamond Head. The Pacific rolling in to be of service. Sky so blue you can almost taste it.
You may choose to wash it down with a flagon of flowered grog at a table overlooking the beach. You may tumble in for a swim. Or maybe just go for a stroll. Whatever. .. you’ll be rewarded with the fullest days available anywhere. It’s Hawaiian magic. And it always works. You’ll see.
Logistics
.. . of life in Hawaii are the same as on the “Mainland.” (Never call it “The States” — unless you ab-
solutely have to.) The currency, of course, is dollars. And naturally there are no customs or passport requirements. Goods such as cigarettes, tobacco and liquor are the same as at home — and at regular prices.
In fact just about all the facilities are “hometown U.S.A.” Electricity is the standard 120 volts, A.C., 60 cycles. Stores, drug stores, medical services, laundry and dry cleaning are strictly from Main Street.
And the language, of course, is English — plus a delightful travesty which might be called “Diamond Head Pidgin.” Take a cab just to hear it.
Cabs, incidentally, are plentiful. As are modern busses . .. and private cars for rent. And for inter-island hopping there is frequent airline service.
About dining. From T-bone to tea house — there’s everything you could want. And in settings that will take your breath away. Hawaiian, Chinese, Japanese, American. Try Wo Fat’s . .. the Colonel’s Plantation ... The Captain’s Galley... and La Ronde for spectacular cuisine and view.
Clothes
Sportswear of course. It’s almost universal. You should include a few sweaters for excursions to higher altitudes. And you’ll probably find the need for formal wear from time to time during your stay.
Temperatures are guaranteed perfect. Ranging in the seventies. There are brief showers every once in a while . .. more fun than nuisance. You’re fully protected in either a light raincoat or a bathing suit.
6