The language barrier that isn't there
In the first place, just about anywhere you go around the Pacific, you’ll find a great deal of English spoken. Certainly at hotels and restaurants. Even at the most remote spots there’s usually someone around who can get the idea.
But what if there isn’t? All the better. It will give you the chance to be an actor. Gestures. Facial expressions. Maybe even a little pantomime dance. Sitting home where you are now it may not sound very dignified. Who cares? Wait until you try it at some little place in a different world than you’ve ever known. It’s a ball.
Passports, et cetera
Your passport is the single most important document in your traveling life. (Not necessary for Hawaii, of course.) Keep it on your person always. Preferably in
a button-down pocket. Your tailor can fit flaps on the pockets inside your jackets. If you should lose your passport, report it immediately to the nearest American embassy or consulate.
Getting a passport is not difficult. Your Travel Agent will give you specific data. Application can be made at Passport Agencies of the Department of State in many cities — or at the office of the Clerk of a Federal Court (see your phone book).
You’ll need two pictures (which generally aren’t very flattering), a birth or baptismal certificate, or an expired passport... and ten dollars — which covers handling fees. For entry into some foreign countries you’ll need a visa or tourist card in addition to your passport. Your Travel Agent can tell you the requirements of each country. Apply for these at the same time as your passport. And include en route countries you may have only the slightest intention of visiting. It’s a million times easier to get a visa at home than when you’re cooling your heels in some foreign city.
You may also need some specific health documents. Generally for re-entry into the U.S., and for entry into many other countries, you must have a smallpox vaccination certificate. Possibly yellow fever and cholera certificates. You can get the forms at any Pan Am Ticket Office, and have them filled out at your local public health office.
The whole process is remarkably uncomplicated. In fact the hardest part is waiting for your passport to come. To give yourself a generous margin, allow about 2 weeks from time of application. During the interval you can console yourself with the thought that your trip is now really starting to get off the ground.
14