Okay. Enough of this dreaming. It’s time to get down to business.
The problem you’re fighting is weight. 66 pounds of baggage is allowed free of charge for First Class passengers ... 44 for Economy. Your first ally is light luggage. Next most important is thinking small.
Wherever possible, choose lightweight synthetic drip-dry clothes. A combination of dacron and cotton is recommended.
around with you. If you are going to be over the limit, ask about Pan Am’s Jet Clipper Cargo Service. It’s a great deal cheaper than excess baggage charges.
Special allowance for Hawaii
If Waikiki is your destination, disregard the packing precautions. The weight limit has been increased to 77 pounds First Class ... 66 for Economy and Thrift. All you’ll need for months in Hawaii shouldn’t come to that. (Luggage limits on interconnecting domestic airlines may vary somewhat.)
For, as they say, milady
Try to build your wardrobe around a central color scheme. That way you’ll be able to effect the greatest variety from just a few outfits. Two-piece costume suits — sheath and matching jacket — can suffice for round-the-clock use. The sheath alone for evening ... add a sweater or stole for day-times. The one-color-scheme also helps by eliminating extra shoes — the bulkiest part of your ensemble. And of course, where you’re going, light sport clothes make packing that much easier.
And for you, sir
You’re heading for open-neck country. Sports shirts, slacks and shorts should handle most of your needs. Maybe one suit for the evening ... the one you travel in will do. By all means keep your shoe requirements to a minimum. Men’s shoes weigh about four pounds a pair.
All this economizing may cramp your style a bit. But it’s much better than dragging a lot of heavy baggage
Last minute check-off list
When the day comes, there are going to be a million things to remember. Added to that, you probably won’t have slept too soundly the night before. All of which means you’re going to need every organizational aid you can get. A list is indispensable.
In fact, several lists. Wardrobe — clothing, shoes, incidentals. Things for pocket or purse — passport and papers, Travelers Checks, tickets. Things to be final-checked — stop newspaper and milk delivery, have a neighbor water the plants ... and pick up the mail.
Incidentally, you may want to leave a forwarding address so you can receive mail during your trip. If you’re not sure just when you’ll be where, Pan Am will be glad to act as your post office box anywhere on earth.
Now. When every list is all checked. When you’ve gone back to the kitchen four times to make sure the stove is turned off. When you’ve locked up and given the key to the people next door. And when you’ve actually arrived at the airport. It’s ...
15