A portrait of GREAT BRITAIN and IRELAND, part of A World of Neighbors
FOR so small an area (121,000 square miles), the importance and influence of the British Isles are remarkable. Here is the birthplace of the British empire and the heart of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
From London, most extensive city in the world (but without a skyscraper), the affairs of half a hundred colonies, protectorates, and independent and self-governing dominions are coordinated and administered.
The present ruling sovereign, "by the Grace of God, King of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Defender of the Faith, Em-
Copyright 1946, Pan American Airways, Inc.
peror of India,” is the latest in a line of kings that reaches back over 1100 years to the Danes and Saxons and includes a dozen royal houses (and a Commonwealth).
Romans, Angles, Saxons, Jutes, Danes and Normans invaded Britain in past ages. The political and social innovations they brought with them can be traced down to today. But twice in modern times the English Channel and the white cliffs of Dover have foiled would-be invaders. The cliffs have become the symbol of Britain’s lone stand against the Nazis. But for these two natural barriers, Britain easily might have been part of the Continent.
GREAT BRITAIN
and
IRELAND
In their turn, English explorers and adventurers, sailing from ports near these same ramparts, planted the flag of England on many a distant shore and enlarged the flow of English trade. London’s commercial and political power, started in the reign of Richard the Lion Heart, grew accordingly ; today miles of docks along the Thames hum to the tune of commerce with all parts of the world. For Britain is a trading nation, the world’s "best customer.” Total trade
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland just before the war was valued at $7,-000,000,000. A good share of the world’s com-mercial and banking business is carried on in
Fresh-air classrooms for the new generation	London.
London a cross-section • in a sense, London is
a cross-section of everything British. For decades, Fleet Street and Bond Street have set styles for the world, the first in journalism, the second in men’s fashions. In hushed Westminster Abbey are the tombs of the kings and other great men of England. Here every British sovereign since William the Conquerer (with one exception) has been crowned. The thousand-year-old Tower has held many a famous prisoner. A fourth of the people of the British Isles live and work in Greater London.
At London, Southampton, Liverpool and Glasgow, ships (many built on the Clyde or in Belfast) hourly weigh anchor with the products of Britain’s chief industries—
Portrayed on “picture-map”		are
Battle of Bannockburn	William Pitt	The Coronation
Fishing fleet	Westminster Abbey	Bank of England
Biding to Hounds	Tower of London	Sheffield Steel
Skirl of the pibroch	King John at Kunnimede,	Cambridge University
“Argosies of magic sails	1215	Welsh coal
. . .” — Tennyson	Nelson at Trafalgar	Sir Isaac Newton and
William Shakespeare	The Age of Elizabeth	the Law of Gravity
John Milton	The Steeplechase	London airdrome
Gainsborough’s Blue Boy	Fleet Street	St. Patrick
Battle of Hastings, 1066	London “Bobby”	Weaving Irish linen
Clydeside shipyards	Bacing on the Thames	The Irish Lakes
The Blitz	Changing the guard at	Blarney Castle
Houses of Parliament	Buckingham Palace	Kylemore Abbey
Old York Cathedral
coal mining, iron and steel manufactures, machinery, and textiles—to return with raw materials and food. Before the war, Britain used to import two-thirds of her food requirements. "Plum pudding” may be totally British, but chances are the rare roast beef came from the Argentine pampas. To feed a population of 47,000,000, Britishers have supplemented food imports by intensive cultivation of their own fields.
Freighters flying the Union Jack of the world’s largest pre-war merchant marine deliver the goods for many nations besides Britain, and the credits thus acquired help support Britain’s financial position. But it is on exports that Britain’s economic life depends.
The biggest manufacturing towns are in the Midlands and the North—Birmingham with its iron and steel, Manchester with its cotton looms, Liverpool, Middlesbrough, and Leeds with its wool. Though scarred by the Blitz, many of these communities are working on new projects to rise on the dust and ashes of the war.
Pageantry and history still play a large part in British life. London, for instance, having survived in 300 years the Plague, the Great Fire, and German bombings, still finds time to watch the Royal Procession to open Parliament, the Horse Guards "trooping the colors,” the "Beefeaters” (yeomen of the Guard at London Tower) and even the bank messengers in green livery and black top hats.
Castles AND COTTAGES • Down many a narrow London lane, on many a wide moor, stand humble thatched cottages and once-impregnable moated castles that have echoed the steps of kings and conquerors—and of humbler citizenry.
Visitors to Britain delight in seeing the Ann Hathaway cottage, Shakespeare’s birthplace, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, Oxford and Cambridge.
Dickens’ Old Curiosity Shop was a regular stop for sightseers, as were London Bridge, Piccadilly Circus, Trafalgar Square, Kew (botanical) Gardens, St. Paul’s Cathedral,
St. James’s Palace, the National Gallery, the British Museum, Parliament and the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace.
The villages are one place to see how Britain lives. Most of them are clustered around the little churches that deeply influence both the spiritual and social life of the community. In a different sense, the local "pubs” are the gathering places of the districts (just as the coffee houses of London were in Samuel Johnson’s day), where John Bull can meet his neighbor after a day’s work for a game of darts, a political discussion, or local gossip, over a glass of beer (ale to Americans). The "orators” in London’s Hyde Park typify free public expression.
Although 40% of the people of the British Isles live in the 47 cities of 100,000 or more population, one trademark of Britain is the little garden plot behind almost every home, no matter how crowded the district.
For a thousand years invasions, beginning with Julius Caesar, added new blood and unfamiliar customs. But for the next thousand years Britishers had time to assimilate their differences and work out ways to govern themselves. The British like traditions, but can assimilate new ideas. Architecture to them means town planning as surely as it does centuries-old cathedrals, custom means the custom of universal education as much as the custom of watching weekend cricket matches or the Derby.
Government IS UNIQUE • Britain’s government is unique. There are no written Constitutions. There is a King who reigns, consults, opines, holds real (if seldom exercised) powers, but who does not govern. Parliament began doing that, making laws and levying taxes, as early as the 13th Century, when King John signed Magna Charta, world symbol of rights for citizens.
Yet it is a government that has set a pace for a good portion of the world. Passage in 1679 of the Law of Habeas Corpus and of the Bill of Rights ten years later were landmarks in the history of Justice.
Princes Street, Edinburgh; Castle Rock on left
Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, Stratford-on-Avon
Scotland’s scenery of misty mountains, evergreens, stone cottages, and lakes is famous; fishermen have caught many a fine salmon in her rivers; golfers travel thousands of miles to play the course at the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, the international shrine of golf.
Lovers of Robert Louis Stevenson and Sir Walter Scott can find in Scotland’s historic capital, Edinburgh, the scenes of many of their tales.
Wales, in a way a "foreign” corner of Britain, is peopled by descendents of the Celts and Iberians, some of the