WSk.
NtlllH

AMERICAN YOUTH HOSTELS, INC.
6 EAST 39th STREET, NEW YORK 16, N. Y.
BY BIKE and CUPPER
You are a member of a small coeducational group of not more than ten, under experienced leadership; the leader knows the ropes when it comes to making arrangements, and is a trained hostel group leader.
BIG IDEA — SMALL BUDGET: Trip prices include all expenses — registration fee, round trip transportation, accident insurance coverage, living expenses in line with hosteling customs, incidental transportation while on the trips as scheduled in the itinerary, organization and leadership expenses, and group activities such as museums, concerts. Personal spending money, personal equipment, and each individual’s Emergency Fund (returned at end of trip if unused) are not included in trip costs.
THINGS YOU’LL NEED: A valid AYH Pass (it admits you to hostels throughout the world, since AYH is a member of the International Youth Hostel Federation); an American passport; sheet sleeping sack, a mess kit and dishtowel, and a bicycle. Experience has proved that you will be most comfortable on a lightweight touring cycle, with hand brakes and gears; arrangements will be made so that group members can pick up their cycles when they land.
Maximum weight to be carried in your saddle bags should be held to 30 pounds, so practice packing now.
You will receive regular bulletins containing information and special requirements. Active sports clothes suited
to your mode of travel are suggested — nylon and other easily washed materials which dry quickly without wrinkles are excellent — plus one outfit for sightseeing in cities. This set of “good clothes” can be carried over in a small suit case and checked with American Express in London or Paris to await your arrival. Baggage allowance on the Pan American Clippers is 44 pounds per person.
AYH offers trips especially designed for those with limited time. Leaving from and returning to New York via Pan American’s Clipper Tourist Service, groups follow a tried and proved itinerary. Read details inside folder.
SPECIAL EXTENSION —
For those who have the time and want to spend it hosteling on the continent, and not the Atlantic, it is easily possible to go “on your own” after the group trip has ended. Thus you’ll combine the advantages of group travel with the freedom of going independently. You’ll learn HOW with the group — customs, language, rail travel, money, meals, lodging, and seeing things that regular tourists miss.
Then, at the end- of the planned trip, you’ll have learned how to travel pleasantly on $2 a day —
Prices listed, of course, do not incl money for expenses while you are on your own.
Printed in U.S.A.
LBC 10.3.53
You can take a hostel trip in Europe this summer — if you have 4 weeks or more. Wouldn’t you like to be a part of the colorful continental celebrations this spring? Soak up the circus atmosphere along Piccadilly? Stroll the Tower of London in company with ghosts of the past? You’ll roll across the somber moors, down from the rugged Scottish Highlands, and watch the moon rise out of Galway Bay.
You’ll see Paris in the spring! The Champs Elysees bright with color and crowds, the soft green of new leaves along the Seine, and view the bustling city from the top of the Eiffel Tower.
You’ll explore medieval cities in Belgium and the cheese market at Alk-maar; and learn the truth about the legend of the boy who saved the mighty sea dike by plugging a hole with his arm.
Only four weeks vacation? — that’s plenty! American Youth Hostels offer you the finest in inexpensive vacations in Europe. And you will see Europe, not the ocean. Pan American’s regularly scheduled tourist flights will whisk you between New York and Shannon or London in a matter of hours. Transatlantic transportation is through the arrangement of the Haley Corporation, well known travel organization which is recognized as one of the finest names in European travel.
You’re no millionaire. But whether you are currently holding down a desk in a government agency, and speculating on your chance of seeing Kew in lilac time; or teaching your 245th class in Ancient History and dreaming of a night in Paris; or being “the best secretary a boss ever had” and determined to do something spectacular with your vacation — whoever you are, you are the young in heart, and your magic carpet is waiting. AYH offers adventure filled educational trips and a wide selection of departure dates. AYH has been sending hosteling groups to Europe ever since 1934. And now there is an important extension of service to hostelers, in that sponsored groups are being sent on a regular scheduled air line. AYH is the only organization to offer bi-trips exclusively; bicycle trips our specialty. It is not possible to see all of Europe in one summer, but, AYH knows what to see and how to cover a tremendous variety of things and places. A hosteling trip with an AYH group is done at a leisurely pace and in an economical fashion; you get to know a country, a people, a language, for you are living a practical education in widely varied subjects. You will cover a maximum of interesting places and still have time to absorb a first hand knowledge of life where English may be a foreign language.