General Information
Reservations. To qualify for Group Air Tariffs (GIT), reservations must be made at least 15 days before departure, but to assure reservations on popular tours or departures, book at least 42 days in advance.
Land Tour Services only. Join us in the first city visited on the tour of your choice till the last city on the itinerary. These arrangements can be made in conjunction with Budget or Stand-by-fares.
Deposit. On all tours $75.00 deposit. These payments may be made with Pan Am Credit Travel Plan, Universal Air Travel Plan, American Express, Diners Club (also Torch Club), Master Charge, BankAmericard (Visa) or Carte Blanche.
Final Payment is due 42 days prior to departure of the tour.
Cancellations. Full refund will be made for cancellations received up to 35 davs before the departure date. Cancellations or changes in departure date or hotel accommodation, received within 35 days of the departure date will be subject to a cancellation charge of $35 per person plus any cancellation charges made by hotels. Cancellations received less than 15 days from the departure date will additionally be subjected to forfeiture of 25% of the applicable air fare in accordance with regulations of the International Air Transport Association. Refunds will be processed upon receipt of Membership Card(s). For Showtime clients a full refund will be made only upon receipt of all vouchers. In addition, no refund will be given for the unused theatre vouchers after commencement of tour.
Refund of Unused Tour Arrangements. Unused hotel accommodations or any other unused service or feature of any tour are not refundable nor exchangeable for other accommodations, services or features. All refund claims must be submitted within 60 days of completion of the tour.
Possible Changes in Itinerary. On occasion, conditions or situations beyond our control may require revisions to the itineraries shown. Every effort shall be made, however, to ensure that such changes maintain the intent of the itinerary as closely as these conditions permit. Transfers. Deluxe motorcoach transfers between airports and hotels and vice versa on a group basis.
Surface Transportation. On Escorted tours, deluxe motorcoaches are provided. Children under 10 years of age are not accepted on motorcoach programs. There is no age restriction on Trend-Setters. Motorcoaches are air-conditioned except where climate and season make air-conditioning unnecessary. Train transportation is first class; reserved seats where available.
Hotels. Tour costs are based on two persons sharing a twin-bedded room with private bath or shower in the category selected. A limited number of single rooms is available at the price shown for each tour. Triple room accommodations are based on a twin-bedded room with a folding or roll-away bed for the third person. The right is reserved to substitute hotels of similar or higher category to those shown in the brochure should circumstances make it necessary. Check-out is noon time in most hotels. Tour participants arriving on early morning flights may therefore be obliged to wait until their rooms have been vacated by the previous occupant. Hotels will do their best to get you settled as soon as possible and your understanding of the situation is appreciated.
Meals. Continental Breakfast consists of coffee, tea, rolls or toast, butter and jam or preserves. It is served at the hotel the morning after each night’s stay. Additional meals may be included on a table d’hote basis where indicated on the itinerary page.
Baggage. To/from the USA. Limited to a maximum of 2 pieces of luggage, the combined total dimensions of both bags may not exceed 106 inches, and no one piece may be larger than 62 inches. One or more pieces of carry-on luggage is allowed, the total combined
dimensions may not exceed 45 inches. Within Europe, free baggage allowance on board aircraft is 20 kilograms (44 lbs.) per person. Strict enforcement of the regulations will be adhered to. All excess baggage charges will be collected at the airport.
Baggage is at “owners risk” throughout the surface portion of the tour unless properly insured.
Tips and Taxes. Hotel and restaurant service charges and taxes where applicable are included throughout. Tips to hosts, drivers and guides may be extended on a purely individual and voluntary basis if felt desirable.
Porter’s Tips. Tips to porters for baggage are included in the tour prices. Porterage is included only after you have passed through the customs area of the airport. Flight bags or tote bags must be carried by the tour member.
All Departures are subject to a minimum of 5 participants. In the unlikely event that this number does not materialize well in advance of departure, you will be offered either a departure on the same date but via a different departure point, or a different departure date or comparable tour, or a full refund on the deposit paid.
Sightseeing. By deluxe motorcoach, as indicated in each itinerary, including entrance fees where applicable, and the services of an English-speaking guide.
Car Offer. On tours offering a discount on the use of a self-drive car, the offer is limited to one car per party, not per person. (Italy requires an international driver’s license which is obtainable from AAA.)
Fly Drive Tours. Refer to page 32 for special conditions. All other tour information is as contained in this General Information section. Local Host Service will be provided in each city on all Trend-Setter tours.
Tour Escorts. Escorted tours include the services of a professional English-speaking escort during the period of the tour in Europe.
A Note On Holidays. During local or national holidays abroad, certain facilities such as museums, sightseeing tours and shopping may be limited. If your enjoyment of the tour might be diminished by such limitations, please check for holidays with National Tourist Offices before selecting a departure date.
Not Included in the Cost of the Tour. Passport and visa costs; all items of a purely personal nature such as laundry, telephone calls, shopping expenses, etc; beverages or meal items not included in table d’hote menus provided on a group basis; meals not indicated in the itinerary; sightseeing and tours other than those specifically included; tips to guides and drivers; excess baggage charges.
All Tour Prices are based on tariffs and currency exchange rates in effect on April 1, 1978 and are subject to change.
Validity of this brochure is from Sep. 15, 1978 to May 15, 1979.
Responsibility. Pan American World Airways, Inc., and/or its agents assume no responsibility or liability in connection with the services of any train, vessel, carriage, aircraft, motor, or other conveyance which may be used wholly or in part, in the performance of their duty to the passengers, neither will they be responsible for any act, error, or omission, or for any injury, loss, accident, delay or irregularity, which may be occasioned by reason of any defect in any vehicle, or through neglect or default of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger; or for any hotel proprietor, or for any other person, engaged in carrying out the purpose for which tickets or coupons are issued. In the event it becomes necessary or advisable for the comfort or well being of the passengers, or for any reason whatsoever, to alter the itinerary or arrangements, such alterations may be made without penalty to the tour operators. Additional expenses, if any, shall be borne by the passengers. The right is reserved to withdraw any or all tours should conditions warrant, also to decline to accept or retain any passenger as a
member of a tour. In such instances full or equitable amount will be refunded, but this amount shall not exceed the amount paid by the passengers. No refund can be made for any feature of the program not used by the passenger during operation of the tour. The sole responsibility of any airline used in any tour is limited to that set out in the passenger contract evidenced by the ticket. Airlines and other carriers are not responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyances. Similar responsibility as noted above applies to all types of carriers, including steamship or car rental companies. In addition to Pan American World Airways, the services of any IATA and ATC carrier may be used in connection with these tours.
Photographs. Cover: Trevi Fountain, Rome, Italy. (Credit: Magnum Photos—Erich Lessing.) Contents: Burghly House near Stamford, England. (Credit: Black Star—Ted Spiegel.) Places pictured are in the geographical area but may not be included in specific tours described herein.
Travel Industry Act of Ontario Registration Number 1412996.
Air Fare Information
Air Transportation. Tour participants will travel by regularly scheduled Pan Am economy class jet services. The services of other scheduled airlines may be used for flights within the USA, Europe and transatlantic sectors not flown by Pan Am. Tour prices are based on Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) fares requiring a minimum of 5 persons having the exact itinerary and using flights specially reserved for the entire tour. Any variation requires a higher air fare. Advance Purchase Excursion (APEX) fares are indicated in some programs. APEX fares offer a savings over the GIT fares. However, reservations must be made and tickets paid for in full and issued a minimum of 30 days prior to departure. *If reservations are made more than 30 days prior to departure, tickets must be purchased and issued within 7 days of confirmation, but in no case less than 30 days prior to departure. If you change or cancel your reservations after ticket purchase or within 30 days of departure, you will forfeit 10% of the ticket cost or $50, whichever is greater. At press time APEX tariffs for 1978 required a minimum stay in Europe of 7 days and permitted a maximum stay of 60 days, including the day of departure from the USA. If booking is made after the 30 day APEX limit the somewhat higher 14/21 day GIT air fares would apply. Such bookings can be accepted up to 15 days prior to departure. Information is available from your Travel Agent or Pan Am.
*For round trip London APEX only, 21 days prior purchase arid issue required.
Special Fares that are in effect during the period of tour validity, such as Budget or Stand-by-fares may be used in conjunction with many tour programs. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am can provide details.
Special Fares Within the USA are available from many cities to East Coast Gateways to be used in conjunction with GIT or APEX fares. These fares include “Add-on fares” and special domestic fares (conditions permitting) which may save you money over normal coach fares. Your Travel Agent can provide details. Travel Documents Required of US Citizens. A valid passport is required in all European and Middle Eastern countries. In addition, many countries require a visa as noted in tour itineraries. Some countries require certain vaccination certificates as well. For current health requirements check with your Travel Agent or Pan Am.
Air fares quoted within this book are subject to change. Pan Am guarantees you pay the lowest applicable fare upon your departure.