Encore
15 days from
England
London 13 Nights

TOUR FEATURES
V
ACCOMMODATIONS: if Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
if Continental breakfast daily.
If Dinner at the London Room with glamorous “London Town Revue”. (4 course dinner with wine). if Dinner at the Beefeater with continuous entertainment. (Wine reception,
5	course feast with wine and ale). if Dinner at the Caledonian Suite with colorful cabaret “Tilt o’ the Kilt” and dancing till midnight. (Scotch whiskey reception, 5 course Scottish banquet with wine).
if Dinner at The Cockney with cabaret and music hall entertainment. (Gin and whiskey reception, 4 course Cockney ’nosh with beers and wines).
TRANSPORTATION
6	SIGHTSEEING:
if All as in Regency tour.
SPECIAL FEATURES: if Four (4) best stall or best dress circle seats for shows of your choice. if One (I) best stall or best dress circle seat to the Opera or a special event of your choice.
if One (1) best stall or best dress circle seat for a Concert or Ballet of your choice.
if All other special features as in Regency tour.
V	-j
1ST DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper for your flight to London.
2ND DAY. SUNDAY:
LONDON.
Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel.
This afternoon you could begin to study the theatre guides to organize your plans for show going. The excitement of the London Theatre scene beckons you. Choose the shows you want to see and the days and times you wish to see them. Sunday is the only day the theatres are dark, so this is the day to map your strategy.
3RD DAY. MONDAY:
LONDON.
Morning sightseeing tour of London’s highlights. Afternoon at leisure.
Don’t forget to make your reservations at the four great theatre restaurants to fit in with your show plans. Your host will help you.
4TH TO 14TH DAYS.
LONDON.
Eleven days free to explore on your own.
It won’t take you long to discover that London is a vast and sprawling city. Yet each of her parts is as unique and exciting as the next, especially her theatre district. Pan Am’s World offers you the opportunity to take advantage of this exciting
theatre scene. London abounds in top shows and famous theatre entertainment. From comedy to tragedy or somewhere in between you will certainly be able to find it. So, let the curtain go up and take advantage of your theatre tickets and have a great time. London also has unique restaurants and pubs, and if it suits your fancy, nightclubs and elegant casinos.
15TH DAY. SATURDAY: LONDON/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight home, arriving later the same day.
Departure dates, hotels, land prices and air fares on opposite page.
17