Marco Polo U
16 days from $669
Italy
Milan	2	Nights
Venice	2	Nights
Florence	3	Nights
Sorrento	3	Nights
Rome	4	Nights
\
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	3 lunches.
•	9 dinners including regional specialties at typical restaurants.
•	Welcome get acquainted dinner in Milan.
•	Festive farewell dinner in Rome.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Transportation by deluxe motorcoach with professional driver and experienced tour director while touring Italy.
•	Sightseeing throughout including tours in Venice, Florence, Capri, and Rome, plus visits to Lake Garda,
Verona, Padua, Siena, Pisa, Amalfi, and Pompeii.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	“Welcome Packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA.
Evening departure on your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight connecting to Milan.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
MILAN.
Morning arrival. Assistance and transfer to your hotel. Welcome dinner at your hotel this evening.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
MILAN.
Morning sightseeing tour of the highlights of Milan including a visit to the cathedral famous for its hundreds of spires. Afternoon at leisure. Dinner at a typical Milanese restaurant.
plus air fare
4TH DAY. MONDAY: MILAN/VENICE.
Drive across Northern Italy today.
Visit Lake Garda and Verona en route to Venice. Dinner at your Venice hotel.
Set out across the rich Po Valley toward the east, sweeping past the magnificent Lago di Garda in the foothills of the Italian Alps. Then continue to the charming city of Verona for a visit. This is the city of Romeo and Juliet. In the afternoon you will arrive in Venice, “Queen City of the Adriatic”.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY:
VENICE.
Morning sightseeing. Lunch at the hotel. Explore Venice on your own or spend the afternoon shopping.
Venice is an incredible dream, made up of 118 little islands, separated by 160 canals, connected by 400 bridges. Spend the morning in St. Mark’s Square (the only area of dry land large enough to rate the name “piazza”), discover the Doges’ Palace, the Basilica of St. Mark, the Bridge of Sighs, and the dungeons.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: VENICE/FLORENCE.
Morning departure from Venice. Drive via Padua and Bologna. Dinner at your Florence hotel.
Just south of Venice is the city of Padua, home of Italy’s most popular saint, Anthony. You will visit the magnificent basilica where you’ll find many works by Donatello, including his famed “Gattamelata”. Then continue south to Bologna where Dante and Petrarca taught Roman Law at the famous university. You will arrive in Florence in the afternoon.
7TH DAY. THURSDAY: FLORENCE.
Morning at leisure. Afternoon city sightseeing tour. Dinner at the hotel.
Your afternoon tour starts with the Piazza del Duomo where you will see the Great Cathedral, the Campanile of Giotto, and the Baptistry, then on to the Piazza della Signoria, the city’s largest square. There you will see the Palazzo della Signoria, Fountain of Neptune and the 14th-century Loggia della Signoria.
On to Michelangelo Square for a panorama of the city, then to Santa Croce Church and the Pitti Palace.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY:
PISA.
Full day excursion to Pisa, via San Gimignano and Siena. Dinner at a restaurant.
Today’s drive will take you to the medieval walled towns of San Gimignano and Siena, the home of St. Catherine, before continuing to Pisa for a look at the lovely Baptistry and the famous Leaning Tower, built in 1173. Return to Florence in the late afternoon.
9TH DAY. SATURDAY: FLORENCE/SORRENTO.
Morning departure. Evening arrival. Dinner at your hotel in Sorrento.
Drive south from Tuscany through the mountains and past the many medieval hill towns that sit serenely in their midst. You will pick up the beautiful Autostrada del Sol which will bring you to lovely Sorrento, set on a rocky ledge overlooking the sea. Roman emperors built their summer palaces here. The view from the Town Hall terrace at sunset is indescribable.
10TH DAY. SUNDAY:
CAPRI.
Full day tour to the Isle of Capri by boat, including lunch.
Capri is white and pastel houses, small piazzas jammed with shops and a sheer delight. See the lovely Villa di San Michele of Axel Munthe, the famous Swedish writer; the ruins of the Villa of Tiberius and its marvelous gardens; the famous
26