15 days from $349
Italy • France • England
plus air fare
Rome	5	Nights
Paris	4	Nights
London	4	Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day escorted sightseeing tour in Rome, Paris and London including entrance fees where applicable.
•	Use of a self-drive car for up to three days in Rome and London, you pay only for gas, mileage, optional collision insurance and taxes. Available Nov. I-Dec. 18, 1978; Jan. 8-Apr. 7 and Apr. 21-May 20, 1979 inclusive.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World “The Best of Europe” discount dining book for Rome, Paris and London offering discounts at a wide variety of restaurants and shops, with many special offers.
•	Pan Am’s World Host in each city to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
Note: Italy requires an international drivers license which is obtainable from AAA.
1ST DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper for your evening flight to Rome.
2ND DAY. SUNDAY:
ROME.
Morning arrival. Meeting, assistance and transfer to your hotel. Balance of the day at leisure.
3RD TO 6TH DAYS.
ROME.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Three and a half days free to shop, relax or 20 explore the city on your own.
Your morning tour takes you along the Via Veneto, passing the Piazza Barberini to the Piazza di Spagna at the base of the Spanish Steps where you’ll see the Fontana della Barcaccia by Bernini. Continue via the Piazza del Popolo and Tomb of Augustus to the Pantheon, Rome’s best preserved monument of antiquity. After, drive through Trastevere to the Basilica of St. Peter in Vatican City for a visit.
Rome is a city reflecting 2,500 years of unequalled cultural achievement. Around every corner there’s a ruin, a fountain, a church, or a piazza. Where else can you climb steps designed by Michelangelo, drink from fountains designed by Bernini, and pray in a chapel designed by Raphael? In Rome the past lives all around you.
7TH DAY. FRIDAY:
ROME/PARIS.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Paris. On arrival you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of the day is at leisure.
8TH DAY. SATURDAY:
PARIS.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon free.
Your morning sightseeing includes a drive through the Latin Quarter to the Boulevard Saint Michel, then up past Luxembourg Palace, Pantheon and Museum de Cluny to Notre Dame, foremost among the churches of Paris, for a visit. Then on to see more of Paris, the Palace of Justice, Louvre Museum, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Arc de Triomphe and Mr. Eiffel’s Tower, symbol of Paris.
9TH AND 10TH DAYS.
PARIS.
Two days at leisure to shop, relax or explore the city on your own.
Everybody who visits Paris loves it for a different reason, and rightly so. Paris has the knack of making you feel happy wherever you go, whatever you do. For some, Paris means Montmartre where you’ll find the celebrated all-white church, and the Place du Tertre, which puts the city on the map as a painter’s paradise. For lovers of nightlife, there’s Pigalle with its cabarets, cafes, and a brand of striptease art born long before the permissive age.
11TH DAY. TUESDAY: PARIS/LONDON.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to London. Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel. Balance of the day at leisure.
12TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: LONDON.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon at leisure.
For centuries London was the center of the civilized world. To many it still is. Once you arrive, you’ll have to agree there is something special about it. There’ a feeling about the city. Of being alive.
Of the noble heritage of poets and kings, statesmen and warriors.
Your morning panoramic sightseeing tour will bring you closer to those special feelings that say London and make it