FTHl	~W "W M “W	'I	SPECIAL
The Holy Land p ^
19 days from $945 plus air fare
England • France • Italy Greece • The Holy Land
London	3	Nights
Paris	3	Nights
Rome	3	Nights
Athens	3	Nights
Israel	5	Nights
Spend your favorite holidays in the most exciting and meaningful way possible. You will visit the four great capitals of Europe and, during those important days themselves, you will be in The Holy Land.
Every Winter departure culminates in The Holy Land for Christmas, from December 22 to 27.
Every Spring departure culminates in The Holy Land for Easter, beginning on Thursday, April 12 until Tuesday, April 17.
A
TOUR FEATURES
The Jaffa Gate and David’s tower, Jerusalem
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Deluxe hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	Lunch or dinner daily in The Holy Land.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Special itinerary in The Holy Land for Christmas and Easter.
•	Half-day escorted sightseeing tour in London, Paris, Rome and Athens, including entrance fees where applicable.
•	Use of a self-drive car for up to three days in London and Rome; you pay only for gas, mileage, optional collision insurance and taxes. Available Nov. 1 -Dec. 18,1978; Jan. 8 - Apr. 7 and Apr. 21 - May 20,1979 inclusive.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World “The Best of Europe” discount dining book for London and Rome offering discounts at a wide variety of restaurants and shops, with many special offers.
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome Packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
J
The sequence of cities varies depending upon the date of departure you choose, but all departures include all elements of the itinerary as described here.
(See the table on the opposite page for city order and dates.)
DEPART USA.
Evening departure on your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to Europe. Next morning arrival in London. (Except Dec. 21 and Apr. 11 departures which arrive in Tel Aviv the following afternoon.)
YOUR 3 DAYS IN LONDON.
Arrival. You will be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure. Day after arrival. Morning sightseeing tour of the highlights of London, including a visit to Westminster Abbey.
Full day at leisure. To shop, arrange an optional excursion, visit some of the museums or monuments that interest you or just relax.
Departure day. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Paris. (Dec. 21 and Apr.
11 departures return to the USA from London; Dec. 18 and Apr. 8 departures to Tel Aviv).
YOUR 3 DAYS IN PARIS.
Arrival. You will be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure. Day after arrival. Morning sightseeing tour of the highlights of Paris.
Full day at leisure. To shop, arrange an optional tour perhaps to Versailles, or just relax.
Departure day. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Rome, Athens, Tel Aviv or London depending upon your itinerary. (Dec. 18 and Apr. 8 departures return to the USA from Paris).
YOUR 3 DAYS IN ROME.
Arrival. You will be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure.
Day after arrival. Morning sightseeing tour of the highlights of ancient and modern Rome.
Full day at leisure. To shop, arrange an optional excursion, visit some of the great museums, churches, monuments or ruins in Rome, or just relax.
Departure day. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Athens or Paris depending upon your itinerary. (Dec. 12,
Dec. 15, Apr. 2 and Apr. 5 departures return to the USA from Rome).
YOUR 3 DAYS IN ATHENS.
Arrival. Meeting and assistance. Transfer to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure.
Day after arrival. Morning sightseeing tour of the highlights of Athens with a visit to the Acropolis.
Full day at leisure. To shop, arrange an optional excursion, perhaps to Delphi or Sounion, or just relax.
Departure day. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Tel Aviv or Rome depending upon your itinerary.