Hotels
London InterContinental
yyi	|h
L;	wi: K r
m tu SBöSStn	1
Pan Am’s World Tours offer a wide range of hotel categories:
Luxury and Deluxe: Excellent hotels chosen for their superior service, stylish decor, dignified atmosphere and good location.
Superior: Superior hotels selected for their amenities, location, standard of service and good value.
First Class and Quality: First class or good commercial hotels selected for their pleasant atmosphere and comfortable accommodations.
Since hotel accommodations form a major part of the land price, your decision may be affected by the type of hotel, its location and features within each of the price ranges. To simplify your decision, we have listed the hotels used by city (in alphabetical order). The descriptions of the hotels have been kept simple and objective; the purpose is to indicate location, main features, and other items which would be of interest to you.
Categories are those rated by our own Quality Control rating system. Thus they may differ somewhat from designations in many hotel guides which frequently vary among themselves.
NOTE: In most European hotels, rooms vary in size and amenities as compared to American hotels. All rooms have private bath or shower.
AMSTERDAM
Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky: Deluxe Superior First Class hotel located on Dam Square facing the Royal Palace. 300 rooms in old and new wings. Well known restaurants, American bar and convention facilities.
American: First Class Renovated superior hotel in a convenient location on Leidsekade in the museum district. 185 rooms. Sidewalk cafe, restaurant, cocktail bar and coffee shop.
ATHENS
Caravel: Deluxe 460 rooms, all air-conditioned hotel, located within walking distance of center of city or 5 minute taxi ride. 5 restaurants and lounges. Swimming pool.
Divani Palace: First Class New modern, air-conditioned hotel, located at the foot of the Acropolis. 2 restaurants and bar.
10 minute walk to center of city.
BERLIN
Kempinski: Deluxe Renowned traditional hotel located in the Kurfuerstendam in the center of the shopping and theatre district. 335 rooms. 3 restaurants, 3 bars, indoor pool.
Hamburg: First Class 240 room hotel located in the center, a 5 minute walk from Kurfuerstendam. Small, well-furnished rooms in modern style. Restaurant, grill room and cocktail lounge.
Jerusalem InterContinental
BUDAPEST
Duna InterContinental: Deluxe Modern 349 room hotel on Belgrad Rakpart beside the Danube. Fully air-conditioned. 2 supper clubs, 2 restaurants, 2 bars and coffee house.
Budapest: First Class Modern superior first class hotel in Buda. 280 rooms. Roof top coffee room and night club. Restaurant with Gypsy music.
CAIRO
Méridien: Deluxe Ultra modern deluxe hotel 17 stories high with 300 rooms. Located on an island in the Nile 15 minutes walking of central square. 4 restaurants, 3 bars, nightclub, swimming pools and shopping arcade.
CORINTH
King Saron: First Class Modern hotel on the Saronic Bay just outside Corinth. 155 air-conditioned rooms. Dining room. Service shops. Resort facilities.
DELPHI
Youzas: First Class 7 story hotel situated on a rocky gorge of Mt. Parnassus. 60 rooms with balcony. Bar and restaurant.
FLORENCE
Villa Medici: Deluxe Modern 100 room hotel in the old center of city near all points of interest. Air-conditioned. Pool-side restaurant, lounge. Service facilities. Plaza Lucchesi: First Class Superior hotel facing the Arno River, close to the Ponte Vecchio Bridge. 105 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurant and American bar.
FRANKFURT
InterContinental: Deluxe/First Class Modern deluxe hotel on the banks of the River Main within walking distance of the center. 814 rooms fully air-conditioned with TV. Restaurants, bars and coffee shop. Swimming pool, shopping center.
Frankfurt InterContinental
GRANADA
Melia Granada: First Class Convenient central location in shopping center 1 mile from Alhambra. Air-conditioned. Restaurant, cafeteria, bars and lounge.
HAIFA
Dan Carmel: Deluxe Modern elegant hotel on top of Mt. Carmel. Few minutes drive to city center. 250 rooms. Air-conditioned. Restaurants, coffee shop, bar, kosher cuisine.
JERUSALEM
InterContinental: Deluxe Superior first class hotel on the slope of the Mount of Olives. 200 rooms, completely air-conditioned. Restaurants. Coffee shop. Lounges. Jerusalem Hilton: Deluxe Modern deluxe hotel situated in the center of the New City. Large, well-furnished modern rooms. Restaurants, bar and coffee shop.
LONDON
InterContinental: Luxury Modern deluxe hotel with 500 air-conditioned rooms. Located at Hyde Park Corner on Piccadilly. Restaurants, supper clubs, bars, coffee shop and full service shops. Brittania: Superior 450 room hotel located in Grosvenor Square. Restaurants and bars, English pub and beer cellar. Georgian style shopping arcade.