St. Ermin’s: First Class Traditional hotel located near Parliament and Westminster Abbey. A reconstructed old Victorian building with 250 rooms. Restaurant, bar and lounges.
Washington: First Class Newly refurbished hotel located close to Piccadilly in Mayfair. 162 rooms simply furnished. American bar and restaurant.
Excelsior, Rome
Kennedy: Quality Modern hotel near Euston Railway Station, 5 tube stops from Piccadilly Circus and London’s theatre district. 325 rooms. Dining room, coffee shop, bar and grill room.
MADRID
Mindanao: Deluxe Modern hotel situated in a quiet residential area about 15 minutes from the center. 300 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurant, cocktail lounge, coffee shop and swimming pool.
Cuzco: First Class 331 room hotel located about 15 minutes from the center of Madrid by taxi. Fully air-conditioned. Cafeteria, snack bar and American bar. Service facilities.
MILAN
Leonardo da Vinci: First Class New superior hotel and resort complex in the northern part of the city. 308 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurant, bar, minimarket and indoor pool.
MUNICH
Vier Jahreszeiten: Deluxe Distinguished deluxe landmark hotel located in quiet, central downtown area. Modernized in 1972 with new 6-story wing. 365 rooms all with air-conditioning. Gourmet restaurant, bar, rooftop pool.
Penta: First Class Modern first class hotel located one kilometer from city center (3 minutes via new underground). 585 rooms. Air-conditioned. Brasserie, cocktail bar and quaint “Bier Stube”.
PARIS
Sheraton: Deluxe Ultra modern 32 story hotel in Montparnasse. Direct access to the metro station with 7 lines within a few minutes to all parts of the city. 1000 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurants, coffee shop, lounges and shopping malls. Louvre-Concorde: First Class Recently modernized hotel near the Opera. 240 rooms. American bar, coffee shop and tavern-restaurant.
PATRAS
Averof Grand: Deluxe 300 rooms fully air-conditioned. Located on beach outside city. Restaurants, bars, service facilities.
ROME
Bernini Bristol: Deluxe Deluxe hotel located at the beginning of the Via Veneto. 150 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurant and roof garden. Shopping arcade and service shops.
Louvre-Concorde, Paris
					
		M	fi IT		
Excelsior: Deluxe Superior deluxe hotel in central location on Via Veneto. Fully air-conditioned. 400 rooms. Restaurant and grill room. 2 cocktail lounges.
Flora: First Class Traditional superior hotel on the Via Veneto. 200 rooms. Dining room, bar, charcoal grill room.
SEVILLE
Los Le Breros: First Class Superior hotel. Well located. Convenient to all points of interest in the city. Comfortably furnished rooms. Restaurant and bar.
SORRENTO
Excelsior Vittoria: First Class Traditional style hotel on a cliff overlooking the Bay of Naples. 100 rooms, all with private terrace or balcony. Restaurant and bar. Private beach.
Vienna InterContinental
TEL AVIV
Dan: Deluxe Cosmopolitan deluxe hotel located in center with direct access to sandy beach. 350 rooms all with air-conditioning. Dining rooms, coffee shop, swimming pool and shopping arcade.
Hilton: Deluxe 20 story hotel in heart of city directly on the sea. 630 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurants, bar, resort facilities. Israeli kosher cuisine available. Sheraton-Tel Aviv: Deluxe New (1977) deluxe beachfront hotel. Located in the heart of the tourist area. 400 rooms all with balcony and air-conditioning. Restaurants, bars and coffee shop.
TORREMOLINOS
Don Pablo: First Class Modern Superior First Class hotel. 401 rooms all with sea view. Air-conditioned. 2 restaurants, 3 bars, snack bar, saunas, game room, gymnasium, swimming pools, tennis court, golf course nearby.
VENICE
Europa & Britannia: Deluxe On the Grand Canal, a few steps from St. Mark’s Square. 163 air-conditioned rooms. Restaurant and terrace.
VIENNA
InterContinental: Deluxe Ultra modern hotel. 500 air-conditioned rooms, restaurants, cocktail lounge. Located 10 blocks from city center near opera.
Prinz Eugen: First Class A modern, 110 room hotel near the South Station and Belvedere Castle, about 5 minutes by taxi from downtown. Restaurant and bar.