The Coliseum, Rome
Faraglioni Rocks majestically jutting straight out of the sea. Shopping is a treat, so we are leaving you time to stroll around, enjoy lunch, and buy that special present. If you like, your escort can arrange a trip to the famous Blue Grotto. Return to Sorrento in the late afternoon.
1ITH DAY. MONDAY:
AMALFI.
Excursion to Amalfi returning along the Amalfi Drive via Positano. Dinner at the hotel.
Today you’ll visit the lovely and picturesque town of Amalfi overlooking the blue Mediterranean. It was in Amalfi that Richard Strauss got his inspiration for the musical poem A us Italian and in nearby Ravello, Richard Wagner composed his opera, Parsifal. Returning on the ribbon of road along sheer cliffs, you’ll have endless vistas of the sea and sky and the gardens, olive groves, palm and citrus trees clinging to the terraced slopes.
12TH DAY. TUESDAY: SORRENTO/ROME.
Morning departure. Visit Pompeii. Dinner at the hotel.
In the morning, you’ll drive to Pompeii, perhaps the most famous ruins in the world. Enter the excavated city by a steep little street paved for Roman sandals.
Stop at the antiquarium, displaying every-
thing from toothpicks and safety pins (circa 79 A.D.) to ancient Roman dice.
See the Stabian Baths and the Casa dei Vetti come back to life. Stroll ancient stone streets, peer into shops displaying the wares of long-gone proprietors, read the graffiti on building walls.
13TH TO 15TH DAYS.
ROME.
Wednesday morning sightseeing tour including lunch. Afternoon and all day Thursday and Friday free to explore, shop or relax. Thursday dinner at your hotel; Friday evening’s farewell dinner at a typical Roman trattoria.
Your morning tour takes you along the Via Veneto, passing the Piazza Barberini to the Piazza di Spagna at the base of the Spanish Steps, where you’ll see the Fontana della Barcaccia by Bernini. Continue via the Piazza del Popolo and Tomb of Augustus to the Pantheon, Rome’s best preserved monument of antiquity. After, drive through Trastevere to the Basilica of St. Peter in Vatican City for a visit.
16TH DAY. SATURDAY: ROME/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to the USA arriving the same day.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower.
See descriptions on pages 2 and 3. During certain periods it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.
City	Hotels
Milan	Leonardo da Vinci
Venice	Europa & Britannia
Florence	Plaza Lucchesi
Sorrento	Excelsior Vittoria
Rome	Flora
DEPARTURE DATES:		
From New York, Philadelphia and Houston on all dates		
shown.		
Depart Return	Depart	Return
USA Rome	USA	Rome
Friday Saturday	Friday	Saturday
1978	1979	
Nov 3	Nov 18	Jan 26....	.Feb 10
Nov 17	Dec 2	Feb 16....	. Mar 3
Dec 22	Jan 6	Mar 2....	.Mar 17
	Mar 23....	. Apr 7
	Apr 6....	.Apr 21
	Apr 13....	.Apr 28
	Apr 20....	. May 5
	Apr 27....	. May 12
LAND PRICES: Per person		
Nov 3-Mar 2 Twin	Single	Triple
$669	$789	$656
Mar 23-Apr 27 Twin	Single	Triple
$695	$839	$682
AIR FARES: APEX		IT8PA102BG
Round trip APEX (Advance Purchase Excursion) airfare including $3.00 U.S. tax. See Air Fare Information (Inside Back Cover) for booking requirements. Higher GIT air fare applicable for bookings made within 30 days of tour departure available from your travel agent or Pan Am.
	Nov 1-	
	Mar 31	Apr
New York	$469	*
2) Houston	$668	*
1) Philadelphia	$481	*
1)	By ALTAIR connection to/from New York.
2)	By PAN AM connection to/from New York.
♦April air fares subject to IATA and government approval.
PANAMAC CODES:
NYC ................ZZ923S RRRTTT
PHL, HOU use NYC.
Teletype Offices: Request from NYCKYPA
27