In Search of Spring ^
17 days from *695 plus air fare
Italy • Greece • Egypt • Israel
4TH AND 5TH DAYS.
ROME.
These days are free for relaxation, or exploration on your own.
During these two days you may wish to arrange optional tours in and around Rome. Visit some of the excellent restaurants and trattorias, or shop in the Via Condotti or the Via Sistina. Go to the opera in the Baths of Caracalla, marvel at the museums and monuments of 25 centuries or just relax and observe how the Romani enjoy life.
Rome
Athens
Cairo
Jerusalem
Haifa
4 Nights
3	Nights
4	Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private
bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.	i
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	Lunch or dinner daily in Athens.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•> Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Transportation by deluxe motorcoach from Tel Aviv airport to Jerusalem, from Jerusalem to Haifa and from Haifa to Tel Aviv airport.
•	Half-day escorted sightseeing tour in Rome, Athens, Cairo and Jerusalem including entrance fees where applicable.
•	Use of a self-drive car for up to three days in Rome, you pay only for gas, mileage, optional collision insurance and taxes.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World “The Best of
Europe” discount dining book for Rome offering discounts at a wide variety of restaurants and shops, with many special offers.	,
•	Pan Am’s World Host in each city to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome Packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA.
Evening departure on your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to Rome.
2ND DaY. SATURDAY:
ROME.
Morning arrival. Meeting, assistance and transfer to your hotel. Afternoon free.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
ROME.
Morning sightseeing tour of ancient and modern Rome’s highlights. Afternoon at leisure.
Your morning tour takes you along the , Via Veneto, passing the Piazza Barberini to the Piazza di Spagna at the base of the Spanish Steps. Continue via the Piazza del Popolo and Tomb of Augustus to the Pantheon, Rome’s best preserved monument of antiquity. After a visit, drive through Trastevere to the Basilica of St. Peter in Vatican City for a visit.
Ancient Agora, Athens