Royal Palace, Madrid
departure to Torremolinos. Early evening arrival. Dinner at the hotel.
Founded by the Arabs in 756, Granada is rich with the architecture and design of the Moorish Kingdom. It flourished from the 8th to the 15th-centuries when it was conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella and added to the growing Spanish Empire. You will see the unforgettable Alhambra, the Palacio of Carlos V and the Palacio of the Generalife, formerly the summer residence of the Moorish Kings. You will also visit the magnificent cathedral and the Capilla Real containing the tombs of Ferdinand and Isabella.
Your afternoon drive will take you south out of the Sierras to the Costa del Sol for a drive along the blue-green waters of the Mediterranean to Torremolinos.
9TH AND 10TH DAYS. TORREMOLINOS.
Two days at leisure at your resort hotel. All meals included during your stay here.
The famous, sun-drenched Costa del Sol is the setting for two restful days and exciting nights. The beaches of Torremolinos are justly famous, and of course, the waters of the Mediterranean along this coast are unsurpassed for swimming or just gazing. The strip along the shore of Torremolinos is also one of the liveliest spots in Spain for exciting night life, after a day of sun and relaxation on the beach.
11TH DAY. TUESDAY: TORREMOLINOS/SEVILLE. Morning departure. Drive along the coast to Algeciras for lunch and a visit. Continue to Jerez for a visit in the afternoon. Evening arrival in Seville. Dinner at the hotel.
Drive along the coast to Algeciras where you can gain a magnificent view of the Rock of Gibraltar. Your drive will take you along the southernmost point in Europe just a stone’s throw from North Africa. Then on to Jerez where the best Spanish Sherry is produced. Then north again toward Seville where you will arrive in the early evening.
12TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: SEVILLE.
Morning sightseeing of the city. Lunch in a typical Andalucian restaurant. Afternoon at leisure. Dinner at hotel.
Your sightseeing tour today will include the magnificent Giralda, a wonderful work of Moorish art dating from the 12th-century, the cathedral and the Alcazar Palace. Seville is one of the most picturesque cities in Europe and you will want to wander through its charming streets during the afternoon and evening. Every corner, every turning, will produce a new wonder to marvel at.
13TH DAY. THURSDAY: SEVILLE/LONDON.
Transfer to the airport today for your flight to London. Meeting and assistance upon arrival. Transfer to your hotel. Dinner at the hotel.
14TH AND 15TH DAYS.
LONDON.
Morning city sightseeing tour and dinner at your hotel Friday. Saturday at leisure to shop or explore. Farewell dinner at your hotel on Saturday evening.
Your morning panoramic sightseeing tour will bring you closer to those special feelings that say, “London” and make it unique. Highlights of your morning tour are the Houses of Parliament, a complex of elaborate spires, towers and crenella-tions; “Big Ben”, the 320 foot clock tower, symbol of London ringing out the hour. You will visit Westminster Abbey, a fine example of early English architecture, to delight in the monuments to the great and the famous. Then there’s Trafalgar Square with its landmark column (flanked by four vast lions) of the famous Lord Nelson, and not to be outdone is Piccadilly Circus, where the leading shopping and theatre avenues all merge around the statue of Eros.
16TH DAY. SUNDAY: LONDON/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to the USA arriving the same day.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower.
See descriptions on pages 2 and 3. During certain periods it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.
City	Hotels	
Rome	Flora	
Madrid	Princesa Plaza	
Granada	Melia Granada	
Torremolinos	Don Pablo	
Seville	Los Le Breros	
London	St. Ermln's	
DEPARTURE DATES:		
From New York, Philadelphia and Houston on all dates		
shown.		
Depart Return	Depart	Return
USA London	USA	London
Saturday Sunday	Saturday	Sunday
1978	1979	
Nov 11	Nov 26	Jan 13..	..Jan 28
Dec 2	Dec 17	Feb 10..	..Feb 25
Dec 23	Jan 7	Mar 10..	..Mar 25
	Mar 24..	.. Apr 8
	Apr !..	..Apr 22
	Apr 21..	.. May 6
LAND PRICES: Per person		
Nov 11-Mar 10 Twin	Single	Triple
$567	$649	$562
Mar 24-Apr 21 Twin	Single	Triple
$625	$713	$618
AIR FARES: GIT		IT8PA102BN
Round trip GIT (Group Inclusive Tour) air fare Including $3.00 U.S. tax. See Air Fare Information (Inside Back Cover) for booking requirements.
	Nov 1-	
	Mar 31	Apr
New York	$680	*
2) Houston	$863	*
1) Philadelphia	$693	*
1)	By ALTAIR connection to/from New York.
2)	By PAN AM connection to/from New York.
♦April air fares subject to IATA and government approval.
PANAMAC CODES:
NYC ................ZZ923S PPPRRR
PHL, HOU use NYC.
Teletype Offices: Request from NYCKYPA
25