Ambassadeur ^
16 days from $479
plus air fare
England • France
London 7 Nights Paris	7	Nights
/ ....—........................... V
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports, hotels and train stations. Tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Reserved seat on the London-Paris boat train via Newhaven and Dieppe.
•	Half-day escorted sightseeing tour
in London and Paris, including entrance fees where applicable.
•	Use of a self-drive car for up to three days in London, you pay only for gas, mileage, optional collision insurance and taxes. Available Nov. I-Dec. 18,
1978; Jan. 8-Apr. 7 and Apr. 21-May 20, 1979 inclusive.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am's World “The Best of Europe” discount dining books for London and Paris offering discounts at Ja wide variety of restaurants and shops, with many special offers.
•	Pan Am's World Host in each city to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city maps and other useful material. (On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
J
1ST DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper for your overnight flight to London.
2ND DAY. SUNDAY:
LONDON.
Morning arrival. Assistance and transfer to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure.
3RD DAY. MONDAY:
LONDON.
Morning city sightseeing tour.
Afternoon at leisure.
Your morning panoramic sightseeing tour will bring you closer to those special feelings that say London and make it unique. Highlights of your morning tour are the Houses of Parliament, a complex of elaborate spires, towers and crenella-tions; “Big Ben”, the 320 foot clock tower, symbol of London ringing out the hour. You will visit Westminster Abbey, a fine example of early English architecture, to delight in the monuments to the great and the famous. Then there’s Trafalgar Square with its landmark column (flanked by four vast lions) of the famous Lord Nelson, and not ,to be outdone is Piccadilly Circus, where the leading shopping and theatre avenues all merge around the statue of Eros.
4TH TO 8TH DAYS.
LONDON.
Five full days free to explore, take an independent excursion, shop or just enjoy the “London” life.
London is a living history book. Go to the Tower of London, that massive fortress on the Thames where the fabulous Crown Jewels of England are kept. Visit the Houses of Parliament in Westminster. Go to Buckingham Palace, where the Changing of the Guard takes place.
And there are lots of different excursions you can make outside London.
Here are a few suggestions. The famous universities of Oxford (with its dreaming spires) and Cambridge (where the undergraduates still pole their punts on the slow-running river). Or take a trip into Shakespeare country with its lovely old English timbered houses and thatched roofs. Hampton Court Palace is a must, too.
9TH DAY. SUNDAY: LONDON/PARIS.
Transfer to Victoria Station for your boat train ride to Paris. Meeting, assistance upon arrival in Paris and transfer to your hotel.
The boat train is the most exciting way to get from London to Paris. You will pass through the charming English countryside to Newhaven where you board a comfortable boat for the crossing of the English Channel. On the other side at Dieppe, you reboard your train to pass through Picardy to Paris. You start your ride in reserved seats at nine o’clock in the morning and arrive in Paris in the afternoon.
10TH DAY. MONDAY:
PARIS.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon free.
Paris is a city of contrasts that holds something for all who visit. Your morning tour provides a starting place to discover the Paris you want to know.
The spirit of Paris lives in Rive Gauche, the Left Bank, where your tour begins. Pass the Roman ruins of Cluny to the heart of the Latin Quarter. In its center is the famous Boulevard St.
Michel, constantly crowded with street, vendors and bustling with vitality. See the Luxembourg Gardens, a magnificent site for the palace the de Medicis built.
Now, Notre Dame appears, familiar and yet regal. Her doors seem like hands joined in prayer and the rose-window gleams like a saintly eye. As you will soon realize Notre Dame belongs to its history. Napoleon was crowned here, and kings and princes were married before its great altar. Your visit of this impressive structure will not soon be forgotten.