Antiquities U
16 days from $879 plus air fare
Egypt • Greece • Italy
Cairo	4 Nights
Athens	3 Nights
Corinth	1 Night
Nauplion	1 Night
Patras	1 Night
Delphi	1 Night
Rome	3 Nights
..................... \
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	First Class and Deluxe accommodations with private bath or shower, hotel service charges and taxes.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	Lunch or dinner daily throughout.
•	All meals while touring Greece.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfer between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Transportation by deluxe air condi-tioned/air-cooled motorcoach while touring Greece.
•	Sightseeing throughout, including tours in Cairo, Athens and Rome.
•	Visits to the Great Pyramids, Sphinx, Great Bazaar in Cairo, Acropolis in Athens, Argolis, Corinth, Delphi and Patras.
•	Full day tour by air to Luxor, including lunch.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Ain’s World Host in Cairo, Athens and Rome to assist you with your touring plans.
•	Professional coach driver and experienced tour director while touring Greece.
•	“Welcome Packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA.
Evening departure on your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to Rome, with onward connection to Cairo.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
CAIRO.
Afternoon arrival. Assistance and transfer to your hotel. Evening free for rest and relaxation. Dinner at the hotel.
The Sphinx and the Great Pyramids, Giza
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
CAIRO.
Morning sightseeing tour including the Great Pyramids and the Sphinx. Lunch at a typical Egyptian restaurant within sight of the pyramids. Balance of day at leisure.
Your morning tour takes you just outside the bustling city of Cairo to the suburb of Giza in which are found the three great pyramids. You will enter the largest of the pyramids and climb to the burial chamber of the Pharaoh, which is located in the exact center of the pyramid. Lower in the pyramid is the Queen’s chamber which can be reached through a narrow passageway. From here you will descend the hill to the great alabaster temple used for the embalming of the royal dead. Beside it is the inscrutable Sphinx, staring out into the desert.
4TH DAY. MONDAY:
CAIRO.
Morning sightseeing tour of the city of Cairo including the Mosque of Mahomet Ali, the City of the Dead and the Egyptian Museum. This afternoon a visit to the Great Bazaar. Dinner at the hotel.
Today’s sightseeing tour is in the city of Cairo itself. The largest city in Africa, it boasts a long and varied history. Your visit to the great Egyptian Museum with its incredible wealth of exhibits will give you an idea of the tremendous breadth of that history. At the bazaar you will
experience the other end of that spectrum in modern Cairo’s interesting approach to the buying and selling of a huge variety of goods.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY:
LUXOR.
Transfer to the airport for an early morning flight to Luxor. Lunch in Luxor. Late afternoon return flight to Cairo. Upon arrival, transfer back to your hotel. Evening free.
Your exciting trip to Luxor by air (a one hour flight) will bring you to the heart of Upper Egypt, where the power and glory of the Pharaohs can be seen in the magnificent temples and palaces of this city. Here you will see what wonders were accomplished 3000 years ago in the midst of the vast desert, slashed only by the life-giving waters of the Nile.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: CAERO/ATHENS.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Athens. On arrival you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure. Dinner at the hotel.
7TH DAY. THURSDAY:
ATHENS.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon at leisure. Lunch or dinner at the hotel.
Athens, dedicated to the Goddess Athena, known as the “cradle of Western civilization” will fascinate you with its unique combination of ancient and mod-
28