Regency |l
15 days from *439 plus air fare
England
London 13 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel acommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airport and hotel including porterage.
•	Half-day escorted sightseeing tour in London including entrance fees where applicable.
•	Use of a self-drive car for up to three days in London, you pay only for gas, mileage, optional collision insurance and taxes. Available Nov. 1-Dec. 18,
1978; Jan. 8-Apr. 7 and Apr. 21-May 20, 1979 inclusive.
•	“Go-as-you-please” bus and subway pass for London, good for your entire stay.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World “The Best of Europe” discount dining book for London offering discounts at a wide variety of restaurants and shops, with many special offers.
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
V *
1ST DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper for your flight to London.
2ND DAY. SUNDAY:
LONDON.
Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel. Balance of day at leisure.
3RD DAY. MONDAY:
LONDON.
Morning sightseeing tour of London’s highlights. Afternoon at leisure.
Your morning panoramic sightseeing tour of London shows you the Houses of Parliament, Big Ben, Trafalgar Square and Piccadilly Circus, plus a visit to Westminster Abbey, just to name a few of London’s highlights you will see.
Royal Cavalry Guard
4TH TO 14TH DAYS.
LONDON.
Eleven days free to explore, take independent excursions, shop or just enjoy the “London” life.
Buckingham Palace, the Tower, Carnaby Street, no other city in the world has such delights. London is a man’s city with a woman’s hidden charms. When in London you’ll quickly discover that a friendship with London is apt to blossom into a lifelong love affair full of pleasant surprises.
The entire city is a collection of villages. Take Hampstead, with its many boutiques, restaurants and lovely houses clustered around the Heath. A village straight out of a picture book—yet only 15 minutes from the city center on the Underground (the subway to you and me).
Do try a pub-crawl through the East End—definitely another village, where you’ll hear some of the quickest wit in London.
London has great restaurants, especially in the Soho area. This used to be the French area of London, so naturally you’d expect to find some good eating here. And you will. You’ll find lots of variety, too. Italian, French, Indian, Chinese, Hungarian, Japanese—not to mention good English restaurants—all are here.
And there are lots of different excursions you can make outside London. Here are a few suggestions: The famous universities of Oxford (with its dreaming spires) and Cambridge (where the under-graduates still pole their punts on the slow-running river). Or take a trip into Shakespeare country with its lovely old English timbered houses and thatched roofs. Brighton is a must, too.
15TH DAY. SATURDAY: LONDON/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight home, arriving later the same day.
15