Fiesta ©
16 days from $567 plus air fare
Italy • Spain • England
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	Dinner daily at hotels or typical restaurants.
•	6 lunches while traveling from Madrid to Seville.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for luggage at airports and hotels.
•	Transportation by deluxe motorcoach while touring Spain.
•	Sightseeing throughout Spain plus tours of Rome, Madrid, Granada,
Seville and London.
•	Visits to Jerez, Sierra Nevadas, Marbella and Algeciras.
•	Professional coach driver and experienced tour director while touring Spain.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World Host in Rome, Madrid and London to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome Packet” containing city maps and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Evening departure on your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight bound for Rome.
2ND DAY. SUNDAY:
ROME.
Morning arrival. Meeting, assistance and transfer to your hotel. Welcome dinner this evening.
Rome
Madrid
Granada
Torremolinos
Seville
London
3 Nights
2	Nights
1	Night
3	Nights
2	Nights
3	Nights
5TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: ROME/MADRID.
7TH DAY. FRIDAY: MADRID/GRANADA.
Morning departure from Madrid by motorcoach. Lunch in Jaen. Afternoon arrival in Granada. Dinner at the hotel.
Drive south today across the great plateau of Castille through the lovely city of Aranjuez. Then out across the open spaces punctuated by charming little towns and picturesque villages to Jaen. Visit the cathedral dating from the centuries of Spain’s greatness. Continue into the beautiful Sierra Nevadas to the ancient Andalucian capital of Granada.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS. ROME.
6TH DAY. THURSDAY: MADRID.
Monday morning sightseeing tour. Dinner at hotel. Afternoon and all day Tuesday free to explore on your own. Tuesday dinner at a typical Italian restaurant.
Your morning tour takes you along the Via Veneto, passing the Piazza Barberini to the Piazza di Spagna at the base of the Spanish Steps, where you’ll see the Fontana della Barcaccia by Bernini. Continue via the Piazza del Popolo and Tomb of Augustus to the Pantheon, Rome’s best preserved monument of antiquity. After, drive through Trastevere to the Basilica of St. Peter’s in Vatican City for a visit.
Rome is a city reflecting 2,500 years of unequalled cultural achievement.
Around every corner there’s a ruin, a fountain, a church, or a piazza. Where else can you climb steps designed by Michelangelo, drink from fountains designed by Bernini, and pray in a chapel designed by Raphael? In Rome the past lives all around you.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon at leisure to shop or explore. Dinner at the hotel.
Your morning tour takes you through the main streets of Madrid, a strikingly handsome capital city; possibly second only to Vienna in all of Europe for sheer beauty. Drive to the Royal Palace, built in the 18th-century by Charles III as residence for Spain’s kings. Visit the public rooms, and view the famous collection of clocks and tapestries.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Madrid. On arrival, transfer to your hotel. Afternoon free. Flamenco dinner in the evening.
8TH DAY. SATURDAY: GRANADA/TORREMOLINOS. Morning sightseeing tour of Granada including lunch. Early afternoon
24
