ern sights. Your motorcoach will take you along Queen Amalia’s Boulevard, past the Parliament and Tomb of the Unknown Soldier to the Theatre of Dionysos. After a brief visit, continue to the awe-inspiring Acropolis and visit the Propylaea (entrance hall), the Temple of the Wingless Victory, the Pantheon (Temple to Athena) and the Erechtheum.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY: ATHENS/CORINTH.
Morning departure from Athens to Corinth. Lunch in Corinth. Afternoon visit to the ruins of Ancient Corinth. Dinner at your hotel this evening.
Today’s excursion will take you along the scenic drive that skirts the Bay of Salamis. You will see the extraordinary engineering feat that is the ancient canal across the Isthmus of Corinth. Then on to Ancient Corinth with its beautiful Temple of Apollo.
9TH DAY. SATURDAY: CORINTH/NAUPLION.
Morning departure from Corinth. Drive to Epidauros where you will visit the ancient theatre and ruins. Then continue your drive to Nauplion.
Lunch en route and dinner at your hotel.
A short, but beautiful drive south will take you into ancient Argolis, where still stand some of the most extensive remains of the ancient civilizations that flourished here as long as 5000 years ago. Your first stop will be the ancient city of Epidauros where stands the famous theatre. Then you will cross the peninsula to Nauplion. You will visit the remains of another ancient and venerable city.
10TH DAY. SUNDAY: NAUPLION/PATRAS.
Morning departure to visit Mycenae. Then on via the coastal road skirting the Gulf of Corinth to Patras. Lunch en route. Dinner at your hotel in Patras.
You will drive via Argos to the impressively situated city of Mycenae. Here still stand the ancient walls and the main entrance to the city through the “Lion Gate”. You will walk through the ancient streets to the royal palace and the circular tombs of the kings who were buried here long before Athens and Sparta were even thought of. Then you will continue your drive along the breathtakingly beautiful coastal road set beside the Gulf of Corinth, which is one of the few bodies of water still remaining that sparkles sapphire blue in the sunlight. As! you drive, you will be able to see Mount Parnassos across the water.
11TH DAY. MONDAY: PATRAS/DELPHI.
Drive to Rion, where you and your motorcoach will board the ferryboat for the short crossing to Antirion. Then you will drive to Delphi. Lunch en route. Dinner at your hotel in Delphi.
A few minutes outside of Patras you will come to the narrow entrance of the Gulf of Corinth where a medieval fortress stands. Here you will board the ferryboat for the crossing to the northern half of mainland Greece. You will then continue your drive via Nafpaktos into the range of Mount Parnassos, on whose slopes was the ancient oracle of Delphi. You will visit the temple and oracle that once was the principal place of pilgrimage in ancient Greece.
12TH DAY. TUESDAY:
DELPHI/ATHENS.
Drive via Thebes to Athens. Lunch en route. Dinner at your hotel in Athens.
Shortly after leaving Delphi, you will visit the medieval Byzantine monastery of St. Luke. Then you will continue on your way to Athens, passing through what was once the powerful city-state of Thebes. Very little remains today after it was destroyed by more powerful Athens. You will arrive in Athens in the afternoon, having completed the full circle of the heart of ancient Greece.
13TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: ATHENS/ROME.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Rome. Upon arrival, you will be met and transferred to your hotel. Balance of the day at leisure. Dinner at your hotel.
14TH DAY. THURSDAY:
ROME.
Morning city sightseeing tour. Afternoon at leisure. Lunch at a typical Roman trattoria.
Your morning tour takes you along the Via Veneto, passing the Piazza di Spagna at the base of the Spanish Steps where you’ll see the Fontana della Barcaccia by Bernini. Continue via the Piazza del Popolo and Tomb of Augustus to the Pantheon, Rome’s best preserved monument of antiquity. Drive through Tras-tevere to the Basilica of St. Peter in Vatican City for a visit.
15TH DAY. FRIDAY:
ROME.
Full day at leisure in Rome. Evening farewell dinner.
16TH DAY. SATURDAY: ROME/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your return Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to the USA, arriving the same day.
VISA: Upon arrival in Egypt, a visa is necessary. Cost is approximately $3.00.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower.
See descriptions on pages 2 and 3. During certain periods it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category. City	Hotels
Cairo	Meridien
Athens	Caravel
Corinth	King Saron
Nauplion	Agamemnon
Patras	Averof Grand
Delphi	Vouzas
Rome	Bernini Bristol
DEPARTURE DATES:
From New York, Philadelphia and Houston on all dates shown.
Depart	Return	Depart	Return
USA	Rome	USA	Rome
Friday	Saturday	Friday	Saturday
	1978	1979	
Nov 10.	....Nov 25	Jan 19		Feb 3
Nov 24.		Dec 9	Feb 23		Mar 10
Dec 15.		 Dec 30	Mar 23		Apr 7
Dec 29.		Jan 13	Apr 6		Apr 21
		Apr 20		May 5
LAND PRICES: Per person
Prices shown include all costs which can be prepaid. In
addition, each person must pay Egyptian airport tax of
approximately $1.00. Nov 10-Feb 23	Twin	Single	Triple
	$878	$991	$855
Mar 23-Apr 20	Twin	Single	Triple
	$965	$1091	$940
AIR FARES: GIT			IT8PA102BF
Round trip GIT (Group Inclusive Tour) air fare including $3.00 U.S. tax. See Air Fare Information (Inside Back Cover) for booking requirements.
	Nov 1-	
	Mar 31	Apr
New York	$760	★
2) Houston	$949	*
1) Philadelphia	$772	*
1)	By ALTAIR connection to/from New York.
2)	By PAN AM connection to/from New York.
♦April air fares subject to IATA and government approval.
PANAMAC CODES:
NYC ...............ZZ923N TTTUUU
PHL, H0U use NYC.
Teletype Offices: Request from NYCKYPA
29