America’s airline to the world
There are several U.S. airlines
that can fly you somewhere out of the country. But only Pan Am can fly you everywhere out of the country. And we have the world’s largest fleet of 747’s. All this should make things easy for you. Not only in choosing your airline, but in putting your trip together. In the air as well as in our offices around the world you’ll find dedicated people who have been brought up in the outstanding tradition of Pan Am experience. Pan Am stands ready to share with you the priceless extra of our years of know how. Your travel agent knows we know. Ask him.
Pan AmVWorld Tours Bonus Features
When you choose a Pan Am’s World vacation, you get a lot of exclusive extras to help you plan your trip, to make the going more pleasant and to insure that you enjoy yourself every step of the way.
Each person will receive:
•	Pan Am’s World flight bag.
•	Pan Am’s World plastic key chain/baggage tag.
•	Pan Am’s World membership card and baggage tags.
Pan Ani’s World
Each family will receive:
•	Pan Am’s World travel wallet.
•	Berlitz language guides to French, Italian, Spanish,
German or Greek.
•	Pan Am’s World “The Best of Europe” discount dining books. (Trend-Setters only)
•	Pan Am’s World Real Guide to Europe and the Mediterranean.
•	Pan Am’s World “In London” shopping and nightclub guide.
The Guarantee
PanAm’s World lours
You’re taking a Pan Am’s World vacation because you want to have a wonderful time. To be sure you do, Pan American World Airways, Inc. makes the following guarantee on all Pan Am’s World tours:
The features and “Bonus Features’’ (hereinafter called “features”) of any Pan Am’s World tour, as shown in the Pan Am’s World tourbooks, will be supplied to each purchaser thereof. In the event any feature is not so supplied or made available, or if a feature of equivalent type and value is not supplied in replacement,
Pan American World Airways, Inc. will refund to the purchaser the cost of the undelivered feature.
In order to obtain a refund, the purchaser must send a letter setting forth the feature(s) not supplied; and identifying the Pan Am’s World tour by number, tour name and departure date.
The claim must be made within sixty (60) days of the return date of the Pan Am's World tour and sent to:
Pan Am’s World Tours P.O. Box 3073 Grand Central Station New York, N.Y. 10017
This guarantee applies only to Pan Am's World Tours and not to any other Pan Am tour.
PXSÎPKÂSÛ QUA
We want you to have such a wonderful time, you’ll be back for another Pan Am’s World vacation. That’s why we’ve worked so hard to be certain our tours have the extra care that makes the difference. That’s why we guarantee you’ll get everything that’s promised. This year, take the vacation with a difference—
A Pan Am’s World Tour!