Enjoy ALL
Central America..
You Can —By Clipper
7	Ä
a '	i
Guatemala
You’ve a date with the Con-quistadores at the monastery of La Merced.
This richly ornamented church in Antigua predates our own 18th century American Revolution.
Guatemala has her resorts and charming hotels. Yet she remains unspoiled as in Mayan times. In Guatemala City you’ll want to visit the President’s Palace and churches like the unbelievably white Santo Domingo . . . shop in the great Mercado Central Market behind the Cathedral and then study the relief map of the country in Minerva Park before heading for the spectacular scenery in the highlands. Although famed Lake Atitlan is nearly a mile above the sea, you’ll gaze down on it 2000 feet from the mountain road. It’s breathtaking. See it at sunrise, when it’s pink and gray ... at noon, when it’s brilliant sapphire ... or at sunset, when it’s emerald flecked with gold. You’ll find modern hotels here at Panajachel and, by launch, explore the Indian villages along the shore. A must in Guatemala, of course, is renowned Chichicastenango — especially for the native market. Like everyone else, you’ll pose for snapshots before the semicircular steps of Santo Tomas while natives build their fires, offer incense and chant their prayers, and marimbas play folk songs in the hotel patio nearby. You’ll enjoy exploring Antigua, with its cobbled streets and colonial homes, its fine old palace, university and monasteries. Try to spend a week-end here, re-living Spanish yesterdays, in one of the comfortable hotels, complete with swimming pool. Then, before you leave Guatemala, try the hunting and fishing — it’s the kind you write home about.
During Fiesta around lovely Lake Atitlan you'll see masked-and-costumed Indians recalling Spanish Days in age-old dances.
INicaragua
If you’ve an eye for business, Nicaragua produces gold and silver, coffee and rubber and imports machinery, drugs and chemicals. But be ready to spend some time exploring this largest Central American country. Especially her capital, Managua, almost entirely rebuilt since 1931. For this attractive, well-planned city, with its fine parks, churches and public buildings, nestles beside a lake amid a scenic setting that includes two extinct volcanoes. You’ll get around by cab or a colorful chime-ringing, horse-drawn surrey . . . shop for alligator skins and native novelties . . . enjoy your favorite sports, and week-end bullfights and try the health-giving baths at Tipitapa, where the peace pact with the United States was signed in 1927.
You’ll find Managuans friendly and sociable. Shop for fine alligator skins at their public markets.
1 ou 11 enjoy more than the comforts of home at luxurious hotels such as the 300-room El Panama, winner of the coveted N. Y. Architects' award.
Patios of the smart clubs are a favorite spot for relaxing in modern San Salvador.
El Salvador
Though busy with trade, especially coffee, El Salvador likes her fun, particularly swimming. And even busy ports like La Union and La Libertad have their popular beaches. San Salvador, her capital, is 2100 feet high amid mountains and volcanoes and boasts year-round temperatures in the 70’s. You’ll shop here for pottery, leather shoes, hand wrought silver . . . and, in Uobasco, figurines no larger than a grain of rice. Try the mineral waters at Lake Coatepeque . . . stay for the fiestas . . . and see Izalco by night. This active volcano is so bright that ships far at sea use it as a lighthouse.
Costa Rica
Costa Rica is businesslike because of the coffee and bananas she grows and the machinery and textiles, food and fuels she imports. Yet in this lovely bit of Old Spain ... so proud of her modern schools, democratic government and colorful old customs . . . you’ll join lively carnivals and fiestas and impressive religious festivals . . . pose beside intricately painted oxcarts, brightly shawled natives and San Jose’s mounted milkmen . .. and shop for carvings, leather and tortoise-shell novelties. Explore in a modern car, or on horseback .. . and even vacation at a dude ranch, if you wish. Don’t miss Irazu volcano . . . Cartago, an old Spanish city . . . the National Theatre built of marble and gold . . . and bathing at the cascade and invigorating springs of "Ojo de Agua”. You’ll dance, too, catch up on tennis and golf, and maybe try a little hunting.
Youll be fascinated by Costa Rica's artistically painted oxcarts. Many of the designs have been handed flown for generations.
Concordia Park in Tegucigalpa is an ancient Mayan capital in miniature, complete with scale model pyramids and idols, temples and shrines.
Imagine wonderful hunting and fishing, with no license needed and never a closed season! Yet many know air-minded Honduras only for its bananas, precious metals and fine hardwoods — or as a market for goods and machinery. Its capital, Tegucigalpa, is high in a mountain valley with quaint streets on different levels. See its palace, university and cathedral . . . golf and play tennis at the clubs . . . and join the crowds at fiestas, the Shrine of Suyapa, and the outdoor broadcasts. Visit Comayagua, clinging contentedly to its Castilian traditions . . . industrial San Pedro Sula . . . the famed mahogany forests . . . Lake Yojoa . . . palm-shaded beaches . . . Copan, the amazing city of the ancient Mayans . . . and the fabulous Rosario mines that yield two million dollars worth of silver every year.

«■I
Take Time for MEXICO, Too
Youll find gay fiestas and bull fights . . . Aztec ruins and mountains .. . desert and balmy beaches. And everywhere, fun and sunshine from luxurious Acapulco to memorable Yucatan. Don’t miss gay, continental Mexico City with its night clubs and hotels as swank and sophisticated as any on earth. For more details, ask for Pan Ants brand new 4-color folder on Mexico.
I hnarna
While traveling Central America for business or pleasure . . . or en route to the Caribbean or South America . . . you’ll eventually come to this Crossroads of the World. Sample its old world charm and modern comfort. For Panama is as famous for its fiestas and beaches and luxury hotels as it is for its gay clubs and deep sea fishing. Explore the Canal, of course, and shop for bargains in the free ports of Panama City and cosmopolitan Colon. Surround yourself with memories of Henry Morgan and the 17th century pirates at Old Panama and Portobello, the old fortress city. Look around Cristobal, the exciting port of sailors from round the world, the lovely homes of La Cresta section . . . Balboa’s Orchid Gardens . . . the President’s home, where beautiful plumed egrets stroll around the grounds ... and, by all means, the churches, especially San Jose with its renowned altar of gold.
Pan American World Airways
SYSTEM OF THE FLYING CLIPPERS
A trip through the Can at gives you à closeup of one of the world’s great engineering achievements in operation.