LETS FLY TO EUROPE
Introduction
Today there is even a greater need for friendship and understanding among the peoples of the world. Europe has contributed much to the culture and way of life of the American people. To develop interest in, and an appreciation of, our Old World background, Pan American World Airways presents this unit on Europe.
The imaginary trip will take the class by the new Flying Clipper America to the British Isles and Europe.
Objectives
1.	To arouse curiosity and interest in the peoples of Europe who have contributed so much to the American way of life.
2.	To develop a better understanding of the different nations and of their social, racial and economic problems.
3.	To develop the knowledge that air travel and transportation can build a closer international relationship and a better understanding between peoples.
4.	To develop an understanding of the physical environment of Europe and to show how this has influenced the lives and history of its peoples.
Motivation
Before the coming of the airplane, children thought of Jules Verne’s story, “Around the World in Eighty Days” as an exciting tale of speed and adventure. Little did those children (our grandparents) think that today such a trip could easily be accomplished by plane in eight, instead of eighty, days.
Do any of you know the actual time of the fastest world trip?
Here may follow a discussion on the speed of the modern plane as compared with former modes of travel.
How would you like to travel in imagination as did Jules Verne? This time we’ll make the trip in a Flying Clipper Ship.




yj


V.
Preparation
Let us suppose that we could spend one month of our summer vacation in travel. We could, of course, go around the world. In this way we would have more time to see the various points of interest and to meet some of the people.
One of the most interesting parts of the world is Europe. Many of our ancestors came from there to settle in this country. How many of you have European ancestry? How many of you have a relative who fought in Europe during the last war?
It would be interesting and exciting to spend our imaginary vacation in this part of the world so that we know more about it.
Planning the Trip
Before starting your preparatory work, plan your trip. A possible route could take us from LaGuardia Field, New York to the Tulin Airbase in Vienna, Austria. The following cities and countries may be included in your itinerary:
Gander.........Newfoundland
Limerick ............Ireland
London...............England
A side trip to Scotland
Brussels ............Belgium
Frankfurt............Germany
Munich ..............Germany
Prague .......Czechoslovakia
Vienna...............Austria
Locate these cities and countries. Trace the proposed flight on a globe or world map.
A globe gives to the child a true concept of distance, size and relationship between countries. By stretching a string from one city to another over the surface of a globe the student will get the direct air route.
This part of the procedure may follow the plan outlined in the Pan American World Airways unit on Latin America which appeared in the March 1948 issue of The Grade Teacher.
THE COMMITTEE
You will find that the formation of a committee will greatly simplify the preparatory work necessary to the following unit.
Three children may be chosen by the class, or appointed by you to head the committee. This committee should:
a.	Write a letter to the Educational Director of Pan American World Airways, telling of the proposed imaginary trip to Europe and requesting free information, maps and timetable.
b.	Be responsible for the collection of all information gathered by the class.
GROUPS
Divide the class into groups, one group for each stopover. The trip to La Guardia Field, from there to Gander Field and the flight over the ocean should be presented by the entire class. Each group will work under the direction of the committee:
a.	To collect pictures and articles pertaining to the trip and each country
b.	To do research in library or museum
c.	To prepare talks or papers (These talks or papers should be informal in style and given if possible as eye witness accounts.)
THE TEACHER
When the class has assembled sufficient material in the way of notes, pictures, articles, stories, etc., including the information from Pan American World Airways you are ready to start.
Remember:
1.	Keep the child on the subject
2.	See that each child tells his share of the adventure
3.	See that pictures are displayed at proper intervals
4.	Encourage questions pertaining to the subject
* Trademark of
Pan American Airways, Inc.
ï :
fill

a