...TO EUROPE
STONEHENGE—ENGLAND
Europe
On a flight to Europe, whether it be imaginary or real, it is necessary to do some preparatory research. You will want to know something about Europe as a whole, its land surfaces, history and people.
Look at Europe on the Globe. How small it is compared with the rest of the world. Yet, in this small area live many nations and a multitude of peoples. Here most of the world’s history for the past two thousand years has been made, and here our modern civilization has its roots.
EUROPE, A LAND OF SMALL COUNTRIES
It is hard for us, a united nation, bounded together by common ideals, one language and one way of living, to understand the complexities of Europe. Each nation has its individual culture and government, language, customs and traditions. Why is this?
BARRIERS
Again consult the Globe. Notice how tall mountains have formed natural barriers between countries. Large rivers and seas also have acted as barriers. Then too, conquest, religion and language have had their effect upon the division of Europe. On our flight from one country to another, we would be amazed at the different aspect each nation presents. Within the nations themselves, each section differs from the other in language, customs, traditions and dress. Each is fascinating. Each is interesting in its own characteristic way.
WHAT TO SEE
Europe is a store house of treasures. No matter which country we choose to visit, there is much to see. True, a great deal has been destroyed, yet much remains.
There are wonderful art galleries and museums filled with priceless works of art. There are beautiful and aweinspiring Cathedrals with their superb stained-glass windows. There are famous
buildings, castles and monuments. Here are to be found antique ruins and those of modern wars, fashionable resorts and invasion beaches. All these wait for us to discover them.
THE PEOPLE
Perhaps you are more interested in the people than in places. All over Europe you will see them, busily rebuilding war-torn cities, pouring from factories after a day’s work, or strolling in the parks.
fields all over Europe. You will meet them on the road in creaking carts drawn by oxen or horses, or walking with great bundles on their backs.
CANAL AND WINDMILL—BELGI U M
In the Lowlands you will find them in the open-air markets, on bicycles along the canals, or mending their nets by the sea.
You will find them at work in the
FESTIVAL COSTUMES—CZECHOSLOVAKIA
In quiet villages you will meet peasants, some with wooden shoes and kerchiefs. In cities you will see well dressed people and some in patched and shabby clothing.
You will see the children—well-fed happy youngsters in some countries, half-starved waifs in others. You will see some of these at work, others at play.
Perhaps you will be lucky enough to witness a festival. Here the people in their gay and colorful costumes are a sight not easily forgotten.
You will hear the music of these people, and see the dance. You will hear strange languages and eat unusual food. You will see and admire the lovely craftwork from each nation in Europe.
In some of the large cities of Europe you will see modern apartment houses, each apartment with its own little balcony. In other places old houses and tenements crowd the dark and narrow little streets. There are picturesque old farmhouses, where the people live much as their grandparents did before them. You will see the makeshift quarters of the war homeless, the castjes, chateaux and the ordinary little homes.
Whatever you see or wherever you go, remember all this is part of our cherished heritage.
REAPING WHEAT—GERMANY
DOG CART—BELGIUM