La Guardia Field
As we stepped aboard the big Clipper America the stewardess greeted us and helped us get settled in the comfortable seats. While we were waiting for the last few flight preparations to be completed, the stewardess told us about the crew.
Our big plane has a crew of eight persons. First there is the Captain who has complete authority and responsibility for the safe operation of the aircraft. He is at the controls during takeoffs and landings.
The First Officer is the Captain’s assistant and takes command at any time that the Captain may be off duty.
The Second Officer is the pilot assigned to navigation duties.
The Flight Engineer is responsible for the efficient functioning of the engines, and for controlling the amount of fuel used.
The Flight Radio Officer mans the radio sending and receiving sets.
The Steward and two Stewardesses are responsible for the comfort and well-being of the passengers, and for the extensive paper work required for clearance of passengers’ entry at the next port, customs, immigrations and public health requirements.
Facts About Our Plane
The Stewardess was very kind. She answered all our questions:
Q. What kind of a plane are we on?
A. A Boeing Stratocruiser.
Q. How much does our plane weigh?
A. About 135,000 pounds gross weight.
Q. How much can it carry?
A. It can carry as much as 25,000 pounds of passengers, cargo and mail.	■ ■
Gander Field, Newfoundland
The trip to Gander took about five hours.
As we neared Gander, our safety belts were fastened. Below us we could see the field as we circled around. The land seemed to come up to us, as the big plane landed us gently on the field.
We stayed in Gander about an hour. Our plane was thoroughly checked and refueled.
Flying the Atlantic
Once more we took to the air—this time to fly over the ocean.
We knew that it would take us about seven hours to cross from Gander to London. The ocean looked cold and lone-
ly as we flew along. We were a little anxious as we asked our Stewardess many questions.
Our Stewardess smiled and soon put us at ease. Here is the story she told us.
“Flying the Atlantic is just about the safest kind of flying there is. Do you know how many airliners cross the ocean every week? A hundred and twenty-five. Think of it!”
“What makes it safe?” we ask.
“There are six special things about ocean flying that make it possible for the Flying Clipper to make these long flights, and make them safely.
“First of all, the Clipper has FOUR ENGINES. If one engine should stop, the other three can be made to give more power so that the flight can go on just as well as with four engines. Even with two engines not running, the airplane could continue on to a landing place.”
“But what if the fuel runs out?” one of us asked.
“It won’t. That is the second important thing. There is MORE THAN ENOUGH GASOLINE in the tanks to get us to Shannon Airport in Ireland, and an additional amount in reserve for emergency.
“Before we left Gander the ground crew completely serviced and refueled our big plane. The airplane can carry not only a lot of gasoline but all these passengers and their baggage, and also cargo and mail, because it was built to fly a long distance with a heavy load.
“The third important thing is called MAXIMUM RANGE CRUISING. For a -long flight like this the Captain flies the airplane at a speed which will use the minimum amount of gasoline and still maintain adequate altitude and flying speed.
“Pan American World Airways, with Col. Charles A. Lindbergh as technical
adviser, worked out this special method of saving gasoline so as to carry more pay load.
“The fourth important thing is
PRESSURE PATTERN FLYING. It is also called Wind Pattern Flying, and it means flying where you get the most help from the wind exactly as you would do with a sail boat.
“He picks his route and altitude by studying the weather reports before he starts, and by checking on the weather as he goes along by reference to his own instruments and from weather reports sent to him by radio.
“The fifth important thing is to KNOW WHERE YOU ARE. This is the job of our second officer. He uses ‘dead reckoning’—that means checking the air speed and the elapsed time to compute the distance covered from minute to minute and hour to hour. He also uses sights on the stars to fix the position of the airplane. Another aid that he uses is radio—his radio direction finder and his radio compass help him to tell just exactly where the airplane is, so that the Captain can remain on the course he has selected for the flight.
“The last and probably the most important thing is the HOWGOZIT,” our Stewardess replies.
We stare at her in amazement.
She laughs and goes on: “The HOWGOZIT is a set of engineer’s curves. I won’t try to tell you how these curves are plotted because it is a very technical thing but I can tell you what they are used for. Before we left, the Captain, the pilot who is navigating and the dispatcher worked out our flight plan and laid out curves showing just where the plane should be at any given time, and how much gas it should have remaining in the tanks. Then during the flight our crew keeps a record of the flight—where it is at each moment and how much gas is left.
“If the HOWGOZIT shows that we are using more gasoline than the flight called for, the Captain will consider what he should do. If it is only a little more, and he can complete the flight and still have the required reserve of fuel aboard, he will go ahead. But if the over-consumption is serious he will turn back to Gander.
Of course, if we are more than half way to Ireland, we don’t turn back, but must go ahead. And in an airplane flight half way doesn’t mean halfway in terms of hours flown and gasoline consumption, because these vary with the changing winds. And here is where the HOWGOZIT comes in. Any time before reaching the ‘point of no return’ the Captain can examine the HOWGOZIT and determine either that he will have sufficient gasoline, plus reserve, for the second half of the flight—or that he won’t. If he sees that he won’t, he turns back to the starting point while he still has the gasoline to do it.”
We thanked our Stewardess and settled back in our chairs to enjoy the trip.