CORRELATION and ACTIVITIES
Correlation
This unit may be used not only as a Social Studies unit, but may function in other branches of the curriculum such as the Language Arts, Science, Arithmetic and the Fine Arts.
Social Studies
1.	The study of the peoples of other lands
2.	The relationship between the people of one country to another, to the United States
3.	The land and its effect upon the people
4.	The trade and commerce of the different countries
5.	European contributions to the American way of life
6.	Location of places and countries on globe and maps
Language Arts
1.	Reading
a.	Stories of Europe, air travel, folklore and myths
b.	Reading and research for specific information
2.	Composition
a.	Oral and written reports of places visited
3.	Spelling
a.	Correct spelling of aviation terms, foreign cities and countries
Science
1.	Climate, weather charts and maps
2.	Knowledge of compass, radio, radar, altimeters and other instruments used in flying
3.	Minerals, plants and animals of Europe
Arithmetic
1.	Time factors
a. Time zones of the world
b.	Comparison of time, between old and new methods of transportation
c.	Time gained or lost by flying East or West over the ocean
d.	Actual flying time on trip
2.	Comparison of money, weights and measures
3.	Distances traveled in miles
Activities
Maps, Charts and Graphs
1.	Using the Pan American World Airways timetable construct the class itinerary as planned on globe
2.	Make large pictorial maps of each nation, showing places of interest and route covered
3.	Bas-relief map showing mountain, river and sea barriers
Arts and Crafts
1.	Each group make a travel poster advertising the country of its choice
2.	Class scrap book to hold interesting pictures, articles from magazines and newspapers, small maps, etc.
3.	Construct plane models
4.	Construct models of various type houses found in Europe
5.	Draw pictures of the Strato-cruiser Flying Clipper Ship
6.	Design and make a stained glass window. Use tracing paper. Outline drawing with black drawing ink. Color with drawing inks or water color. Mount on cardboard
7.	Design textiles using motifs from
a.	Czechoslovakia
b.	The British Lion
c.	Scottish Thistle
8.	Collect souvenirs or small articles made in Europe
Compositions, Letters and Stories
1.	Write an account of an imaginary trip to the birthplace of grandparents or relatives in Europe
2.	Write letters to children or a school in Europe. (Consult Junior Red Cross or a relief agency for addresses.)
3.	Prepare oral or written compositions on the advantage of air travel between the United States and Europe
4.	Write imaginary description
a.	Olympic Games
b.	Fair or Festival
c.	Most interesting place visited
d.	Life on a farm
5.	Write short biographical sketches of famous Europeans (musicians, artists, writers or statesmen). Bind into a book
Music and the Dance
1.	Sing European folksongs and National Hymns.
2.	Listen to the music of great European composers on the radio or phonograph.
3.	Dance European Folk Dances.
Culminating Activity
This may be given as a combination of Exhibition and Pageant.
1.	Exhibit work done
2.	Stage a pageant using the costumes of the European countries
3.	Group singing of folksongs and dances
4.	A talk by someone who has been to Europe, either in the service of our country or as a visitor
Recommended Reading
A Selection of Authoritative Books on Europe and the British Isles
TEACHERS
Inside Europe
By John Gunther, Harper and Brothers, 1986. Many individuals help make history, is the theory of this interesting and reliable book.
Van Loon’s Geography
By Hendrik William Van Loon, Simon and
Schuster, 191,2.
Van Loon’s illustrations plus an interesting style of writing result in an informative book which contains excellent background material for teachers.
Europe Since 1914
By F. Lee Binns, F. S. Crofts and Company, 1945. A modern work that develops the history of Europe from the beginnings of World War I through World War II.
A Political And Social History Of Europe, Vol. II
By C. J. Hayes, The Macmillan Company, 1916. An outstanding work in the field of European history.
CHILDREN
Our World Today
By DeForest Stull and Roy W. Hatch, AUyn and Bacon Company, 1947, 860 pages.
This modern textbook studies all European Countries. Many good illustrations. Contains physical, political and relief maps. 5th or 6th grade level.
Our European Neighbors
By J. Russell Smith, The John C. Winston Company, 1946, 860 pages.
This book has much interesting and instructive material on countries studied in the unit. Well illustrated. 5th or 6th grade level.
Living Across The Seas
By W. R. McConnell, Rand McNally Co., 370 pages, Revised 1945.
“Living Across the Sea” presents the story of European Countries in an interesting manner. Should appeal to children. Has many good maps. 5th grade level.
Peter and Mary in Europe
By Mildred Houghton Comfort, Beckley Cardy Company, Revised 1945, 268 pages.
A story of a boy and his sister who take a trip through Europe. Illustrated. 4th-6th grade level.
The Land Of The English People
By Alicia Street, J. P. Lippincott Company, 1946, 128 pages.
An excellent source of material for a real understanding of the English people. Good photographs of modern England. 6th, 7th, 8th grade leveL