I
BONNIE SCOTLAND
A Sample Lesson
BURNS COTTAGE
We Discover Scotland
This sample lesson will give you some idea as to how each country should be presented. A portion of the lesson may be given by individual members of the group or the entire group may combine to tell the story.
Use bas-relief maps wherever possible to describe the air-view of the land. Display pictures of places mentioned during the lesson and point them out on a map.
This story was based on an article, “Bonnie Scotland, Post-war Style” from The National Geographic Magazine, May 1946, with added information from Pan American World Airways and reference books.
Describing the Land
Our first glimpse of Scotland comes as we fly over the Solway Firth, from London on our way to the airport at Prestwick. How beautiful it is. The green hills and misty blue-green mountains seem to rise from a silver sea. We learn we are over the Southern Highlands, “The Cradle of Scotland’s Independence.”
Scotland, we are told, may be divided into four sections; the Southern Highlands, the industrial belt, the Highlands and northeast Scotland.
The tallest mountain in the British Isles is in the Highlands, Ben Nevis, 4,406 feet high. This part of Scotland has an average rainfall of 151 inches a year. Think of that! No wonder Ben Nevis raises his head in the clouds.
AULD BRIG O'OOON
The Sight-Seeing Trip
We would like to visit each part of Scotland, but on this trip we are going to the Robert Burns country, Glasgow and Edinburgh.
The Burns Country
Excitedly we step from the plane at Prestwick. We are actually in Scotland. What a large airport (one of the biggest in the world).
We spend our first night in Ayr. It is a busy town. Cheese, carpets, woolens, lace and explosives are manufactured here and each year hundreds of tourists come to visit the Burns country.
Early the next morning we go to Alloway to see the cottage of Robert Burns. As we drive along we try to remember some of his songs. Everyone knew “Auld Lang Syne” and “Bonnie Doon.”
After a short ride we reach the little thatched roof cottage. It sits right beside the road. This long, low plastered house with red shutters and doors is now a museum.
In the cottage we see the room where Burns was born. It has a flagstone floor. In one corner of the room is a curtained alcove just big enough for a bed.
KILTS ARE WORN IN PARADES
We are shown a copy of the first edition of Burns. In 1786 it cost three shillings (75c). Later in 1903 it was purchased for one thousand pounds $5,000.00). What a lot of money!
From the house, we go to see “The Auld Brig o’Doon.” This pretty stone arch brig (bridge) is preserved as a memorial to Burns, and is for pedestrians only. It is here that “Tam o’ Shanter” (in Burns’ poem) fled from the witches, who were unable to chase him over the running water.
Edinburgh
Edinburgh is beautiful! It is interesting, too. Many famous people lived here. As we tour the city we' see the home of Alexander Graham Bell (inventor of the telephone). Sir Walter Scott’s house, and the house where Audubon drew many of his bird pictures.
We like Princes Street especially. How wide it is! What big stores! It reminds us of Fifth Avenue in New York.
All along one side of this street is a park with lovely gardens. Behind the park, high above the city, rises Castle Rock and the stone houses of Old Town. The ancient castle is surrounded by great walls (10 to 15 feet thick). They look almost like pictures we have seen of the great wall of China.
As we walk through the gardens we see an enormous clock, made entirely of growing flowers. Why^ it actually keeps time. Isn’t that amazing! We are
told that the dial is 10 feet in diameter, and that the works are concealed underground.
We also see a tall gothic spire, like the top of a cathedral, which covers a statue of Sir Walter Scott. At the far end of the gardens is the National Art Gallery.
After lunch we visit Castle Rock. From the parapet we look all over the city and far off into the country. It is crowded with tourists, for this is a favorite spot.
We are interested in an old cannon made before Columbus discovered America, called “Mons Meg.” Used in many wars, it was captured by Cromwell, later returned to Scotland by Sir Walter Scott.
We visit St. Margaret’s Chapel, the smallest in the British Isles, and walk down the Royal Mile (a winding historic street).
We return at teatime, exhausted but happy, to eagerly discuss our sightseeing between bites of delicious griddle-baked scones.
Glasgow
It is noon, the sky is smoky and misty as we go down Renfield Street, the main thoroughfare. We ride in a double-decker tram (trolley-car). They are painted different colors so that people can tell where they go.
The street is crowded with shoppers. We find the people very friendly and helpful. We like to hear them speak. We are disappointed not to see any kilts (Kilts are a Highland dress worn today only for celebrations, parades, etc).
At Clydebank near Glasgow, we visit the large shipyards. We learn that two-thirds of Britain’s ships are built along the river Clyde. The “Queen Mary” was built in a huge shipyard that employs 10,000 people.