The trip of a lifetime leaves at 5:30 p.m, May 1,1976.
How’s your spirit of adventure? Your love of pioneering? Your desire to say “I did it!”?
If you’re the kind who would like to tell your children’s children that you were one of a select handful of people who made this first-of-a-kind round-the-world trip...step aboard Pan Am’s extraordinary all new 747 SP (Special Performance) Jet on May 1,1976. We call this historic one-time flight “Clipper 200-Liberty Bell Express.”
Only 130 people.
It’s not everybody who can make this exciting 22,684 mile trip. Actually, no more than 130 in all the world!
Because this is a first. And only.
The flight starts in New York. From there, in one giant, 8,100 mile nonstop leap east-
ward over Central Europe, you go to Delhi. Then nonstop to Tokyo. (7,354 miles). Then nonstop to New York.
Exciting? You bet it is. Because you’ll be traveling with people much like you — people imbued with a sense of adventure, a feeling for doing things way ahead of the rest of the crowd.

We intend to set a record.
Around the world in about 40 hours! You’ll enjoy the special thrill of being an actual part of a recordsetting flight. We’re not only out to set an around the world speed and distance record... but speed and distance records between each of the cities enroute. When you see the record in record books, you’ll know you were there!
The flight will be monitored by The National Aeronautic Association (The U.S. representative of Federation Aeronautique Internationale, which officially governs world aviation speed and distance records). You’ll get an official “passenger-observer” card issued in flight by this Association. And you’ll receive a handsome Pan Am Commemorative certificate, testifying to your being a passenger on this historymaking flight.
On the way, of course, you’ll enjoy all the amenities of a Pan Am flight. Tempting food. Pampering service. Everything as you’d expect it to be on America’s Airline to the World. There’ll be entertainments all along the way, including a choice of different movies.
And you’ll be traveling in charming company.
Summer Bartholomew, Miss U.S.A., will be one of your companions. She’s coming along as another symbol of the pioneering spirit of this flight - so appropriate in this Bicentennial Year.
Hurry, if you want to be among the few.
First class and Economy seats on this one-time flight are strictly limited. There will never be another flight like it. First class accommodations: $2,912*. Economy:
$1,838*
Here’s your chance to judge for yourself the marvelous new 747 SP — the plane that’s almost 50 feet shorter than the 747... but the plane that can go thousands of miles further—nonstop.
We hope you’ll join us on Pan Am Clipper 200-The Liberty Bell Express.
Because it will give you something to talk about. For years.
Tares quoted are subject to government approval and are based on departure from and return to New York.