'T'HE new thing in travel is ''Sea-Air”. It is just made * ior that long-planned trip to the Orient, because it solves the paramount diiticulty ol "finding enough time”. It combines the pleasure of leisure hours aboard ship with the modern, speedy and smart mode of travel —on Trans-Pacific Clippers.
Main Salon—China Clipper
DEYOND Hawaii, America's principal outpost of the Pacific, lie many miles of ocean, bordering lands of romance and mystery . . . the mysteries of the romantic East . . . Cross the ocean speedily and spend your vacation time under the tropical lure of the isles and lands of the Orient — Fly.. . At Honolulu board a Trans-Pacific Clipper and fly on to new adventures ... to the sunlit coral isles of Midway and Wake ... to Guam, land of peaceful living, unspoiled by the hurly-burly of modern life . . » to the Philippines, where the East really meets the West . . . and after Manila, a few more hours by Clipper over the ancient China Sea to call at picturesque Macao . . . then twenty minutes beyond to fascinating Hong Kong . . . crossroads of the Orient . . . From Hong Kong, in from one to eight hours of flying, bustling Canton . . . international Shanghai . . . imperial Peking are at your command . . . Thus, in from forty to fifty daylight flying hours from Honolulu, you are in the heart of ancient China.
{^TARTING from any point in the United States, you go by rail 'w' or air to any one of three important steamer ports of the Pacific Coast—Los Angeles, San Francisco, or Vancouver . . . there to board a luxury liner which will take you in five days of delightful sailing to blue Hawaii . . . Five days of rest and relaxation and enjoyment of the sea, deck sports, music for dancing, perfect cuisine... Every convenience and shipboard entertainment feature to achieve the ideal ocean voyage is at hand to help you while away the carefree hours which will open this unique and perfectly planned journey and bring you to the garden spot of the Pacific—to enjoy the water sports of Waikiki, to view Kilauea Volcano, the Hawaii National Park, Mt. Tantalus and the interesting islands of Oahu and Molokai . . . This is the perfect beginning of either a business or pleasure trip to the far-off Orient . . . You are now ready to command the fastest mode of ocean travel to reach your destination on the other side of the Pacific in a series of short, swirt, daylight flights.
THIS combined "Sea-Air" trip takes only eleven days from the * Pacific Coast to China at considerably reduced rates over the all-air fare. Charges include established steamship fares according to the accommodations preferred, and reduced air rates, including meals aloft and overnight hotel expenses on the islands of Midway, Wake and Guam.
A Gay Bon Voyage
SEA-AIR" IS THE TRULY MODERN WAY TO TRAVEL.