On the island of Fyn are well-preserved half-timbered houses, willow-bordered fields, lovely old manors and the birthplace of the beloved writer of fairy tales, Hans Christian Andersen.
From Copenhagen you’ll want to take some of the tourist excursions — particularly to the north coast of Zealand where you will find many seaside resorts and the town of Elsinore, where, in the courtyard of Kronberg Castle, Shakespeare’s immortal “Hamlet” is performed every summer.
VALKOMMEX!
Try to take the three-day trip from Stockholm to Gothenburg by the Gota Canal steamer. This canal is made up of a series of connected waterways stretching across the country from the Baltic to the Kattegat, and it takes you through scenes of idyllic beauty you’ll want to remember forever.
Visit, too, the ancient town of Visby on the Island of Gotland in the Baltic. The towered walls and churches you will see are for the most part in ruins, but somehow all the more beautiful and full of historic interest.
Dalecarlia, a rural province, is worth visiting for its colorful native costumes and wealth of folklore. And from Stockholm deluxe trains serve the unique Finnish province of Lapland.
Sweden is a great place for holiday fun and parties. Always there is much merry-making, good things to eat — smorgasbord delicacies, konditori pastries, good cheese and hard bread — and always, abundant hospitality to make you feel at home.
VELKOMMEN!
Denmark is a real delight—both for its own historic and present-day reality, and for its story-book reminders, dear to many hearts.
You’ll arrive by Clipper in Copenhagen — the Paris of the North. Copenhagen retains its early charm in the narrow streets through the center of the town, in its convivial gaiety, its art and its picturesque sidewalk cafes. Copenhagen’s night-life, excitement, cabarets, are fantastic— and very inexpensive. Tivoli, a wonderful amusement park, is one of the main tourist attractions in summer.
The Danes are a fun-loving people and terrific at preparing food. First chance you get, try one of their world-famous open-faced sandwiches. As for shopping, here’s the perfect opportunity to buy Danish silverware and the magnificent Royal Danish porcelains.
By express railway, inter-island boats- and air connection, you can get quickly and easily to even the most distant parts of the country. And, as you go, you’ll love the little towns you see. Towns with red-tiled churches, thatched-roof cottages. Where every house has a bright doorway and polished nameplate — and a flower pot on the windowsill.
Along Jutland’s west coast are a number of attractive bathing resorts. At Fano, you can have the fun of driving across the wide beach into the sea in horse-drawn bathing cabins.
Sweden is a land of natural scenic beauty — of hillsides wooded with delicate birch and sturdy pine, of lakes and waterways and many, many islands. It is a land, too, 'of brilliant sports events and modern social progress.
i Stockholm is two cities in one — ancient and modern. In “Gamla Sta’n” is the Royal Palace, completed about 200 years ago. Nearby is the “Great Church”, built in the Middle Ages, where most of the Swedish Kings have been crowned.
By contrast, modern Stockholm, with its City Hall, smart shopping center, library, churches, stadium, up-to-date schools, social and scientific institutions, is a model of city planning and twentieth century architecture.
Street scene in "Oldtown Aarhus, Denmark.
Hans Christian Andersen tells his tales forever in a Copenhagen park.
Pause for refreshment — wayside stand in a Swedish forest.
Enjoy charming scenes such as this — Roskilde and its famous cathedral.
Lots of fun in the sun in Sweden — Saltsjobaden, near Stockholm,
and Finland’s beautiful forests stretch out in endless vistas of brilliant green. This is the time when in Lapland, northernmost of Finnish provinces, the sun shines right through the night, and in southern Finland there is no darker night than a haunting twilight. There’s good golf and tennis in Finland — and absolutely wonderful yachting.
Finland in summer is also ideal for camping, hunting and fishing — and for attending track meets featuring world-famous Finnish athletes.
The winter sports season starts in February. Then skiing is at its best. In the fell country, this season stretches on into May. Winter also is the season for cultural activities in Finland — the best time for you to attend concerts, the theatre, art shows and the opera. And, of course, at any time of year, you will find much of interest in visiting the museums and Finland’s fine old castles.
The breath-taking view of Helsinki from the Stadium tower will give you a preview of all that’s to be seen in this modern city . . . the magnificent white stone church of Suurkirkko, famous works of outstanding Finnish sculptors, the beautiful City Gardens, and — of course — the Olympic Stadium.
VELKOMMEN!
oTway
From the moment your Pan American Clipper sets you down in Norway, your spell of enchantment begins. You’ll find scenic grandeur, fascinating cities, interesting folkways, people you like — and a hearty welcome.
Much of Norway lies within the Arctic Circle, but its west coast is warmed by the Gulf Stream and is open to travel year round. For the ultimate in scenery, in the summer months take a boat up one of the famous fjords. As you go inland, you steam right through deep-cut valleys, the mountains rising sheer and steep so that you can almost reach out your hand and touch them. And in the clear water, catch the mirrored beauty of snow-capped peaks, a gracious waterfall or sparkling glacier.
Behind the fjords, in the region of high mountains, Norway is a sportsman’s paradise — with elk, hare, fox and marten for the huntsman’s quarry — salmon, trout and pike to reward the angler. Besides its beautiful coastal scenery, Norway has vast plateaus, deep forests, narrow valleys — and tiny, picturesque villages nestled among the hills. Its cities — with modern apartments, a bustling business life — retain ancient landmarks you will want to see.
If you’re there in summer, you’ll want to visit the North Cape, where the sun never wholly drops from sight — from May to the first of August. In winter, people come from all over
Remembrance of things past — of Norway's nimble fingers.
Helsinki Market —full of the good things of earth and the sea.
TERVETELOA!
Finland — the “Land of 60,000 Lakes” — has many pleasures to offer you in either summer or winter. During the summer season — June through September, the air is refreshingly clear
Quaint scenes such as this dot the countryside in Norway.
the world for the skiing — particularly in the magnificently situated resorts in the Southeast.
In Oslo, Norway’s capital, you can dine outdoors in the park to the strains of concert music, right in sight of the Royal Palace. On Bygdoy Peninsula, outside the city, is the replica of an old Norse Village — and three ancient Viking ships rescued from their burial ground of a thousand years.
DON’T TRUST TO LUCK-TRUST YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
Why take a chance of missing some of the wonderful	details of European travel. He can ease	^
places in Scandinavia and Finland you want to see?	your way, give you all the information	f
Why spend hours making your own plans and	about passports and currency, help you
itinerary when your Travel Agent will do it for you —	in a dozen ways. And when you consult	him
better, faster, and usually at no extra cost?	first, you know you're doing the right thing. ^
Your Travel Agent is in touch with all the latest He's your best guarantee for a wonderf ul time. ***