Oddities of the Supersonic Jet Age
Figuring out time schedules for supersonic jetliners is becoming a popular indoor sport. For instance, you’ll soon be able to have breakfast in London and fly supersonically to New York for a second cup of coffee, which you’ll be drinking even earlier than the one you had in London. If you continue on west, always just ahead of the sun, you’ll never get past breakfast time. Or you can leave Tokyo at, say, 10 o’clock Wednesday evening and arrive in San Francisco at about 10 o’clock the same Wednesday morning — 12 hours earlier than you left Tokyo.
Of course, it’s all a matter of relating supersonic speeds to the different time zones round the earth — plus the International Dateline by which you gain or lose a day, depending on which direction you’re traveling.
Supersonic flight is still a far cry from the imaginative science-fiction concept of time-travel : when you might buy your ticket, step into a booth and step out an instant later in Istanbul or Tokyo. But the exciting new era of supersonic air travel NOW shaping up on world horizons is in no sense imaginary. And when it becomes a horizon-shrinking reality, you may be sure Pan Am, the World’s Most Experienced Airline, will be ready to carry you into it.
COMING ON PAN AT...
... the age of
SUPERSONIC
CLIPPER
TRAVEL
Some basic questions
and answers on faster-than-sound
air transportation
1
Ml
Printed in U.S.A. 4/64
ftCCt boygtA
Why supersonic speed?
Why supersonic speed? Isn’t 600 miles an hour fast enough for the air traveler? What if you can get to Paris or Tokyo — see the Eiffel Tower or Fujiyama — in less than half the time it takes now? What’s the big hurry?
Since the days of the Wright brothers, the purpose of air travel has been to save time, to make travel more pleasant, more practical for more people. Supersonic travel is just another giant step forward in the logical development of air transportation.
And despite the immensity of the forward step, Supersonic Clipper travel will be so smooth, so comfortable for the traveler, he’ll hardly believe he’s moving faster than the speed of sound. Yet he’ll have extra hours at his destination ... to enjoy his holiday more, get more business done.
What is the target date for the Supersonic Clipper?
Depending on the progress of building and testing one design already out of the blueprint stage, and on the accelerated program for another still in planning — target date for the first Pan Am Supersonic Clipper passenger flight is within the next decade.
The Concorde, a supersonic transport (SST) now being built jointly by Britain and France, is expected to become the world’s first operational supersonic airliner. Pan American is the first U.S. airline scheduled to receive delivery of the Concorde.
A U.S. version of the SST now in the planning stage will be larger and faster than the Concorde. Pan Am has requested delivery schedules on 15 as an initial addition to the Jet Clipper fleet, and is contributing to the development of this advanced type transport.
How many passengers will the Supersonic Clipper carry?
The Concorde is designed to accommodate 90 to 112 passengers in normal seat configuration. The larger U.S.-designed SST may carry 160 to 200 passengers, possibly more. And, as with present-day jets, Supersonic Clippers will also carry cargo.
How fast will Supersonic Clippers travel?
Depending on the type of aircraft, air speed of Supersonic Clippers will range from 1400 to possibly 2000 miles an hour. Measurement of supersonic speed involves many variables but they need not concern tomorrow’s air traveler. For all practical purposes of getting from here to there, it’s enough to know that Supersonic Clippers will, for example, reduce travel time from New York to London to less than 3 hours.
The variables are interesting in themselves. One is “miles per hour.” In supersonic travel, speed becomes relative and changeable. So a new yardstick, called the “Mach (pronounced mock) number,” is now used to measure it. Mach 1 is the speed of sound, Mach 2 twice the speed of sound, and so on. The speed of sound is also a variable. At sea level it is 762 miles per hour, at 35,000 feet, only 660 m.p.h. — still Mach 1.
In Supersonic Clipper flight, whatever Mach number your Captain logs, you will always be sure of one invariable — the safety and comfort assured by Pan Am’s invariable concern for its Clipper passengers.
WRIGHT BROTHERS — 1903
©Pan American World Airways, Inc., 1964
Pan Am and Clipper, Trade-marks Reg., U. S. Pat. Off.