What effect will supersonic speeds have on plane and passengers?
As far as passengers are concerned, supersonic speeds will have no effect other than reducing travel time. Speeds of 1450 m.p.h., predicted for the Concorde — and about 2000 m.p.h. for the U.S. version SST — will naturally have an effect on the aircraft “skin.” Friction-induced heating — result of passing through the air at high speeds — occurs even in today’s subsonic jetliners. At higher speeds it will increase, of course, but Supersonic Clippers will be constructed of newly-developed metals and alloys suited to extremes of heating and cooling.
The Concorde's skin will be primarily aluminum alloy with stainless steel or titanium used in strategic areas ; these metals possessing excellent heat-endurance qualities. Because of higher surface temperature in flight, the faster U.S. ship will probably have a skin made mostly of titanium.
Other conditions of supersonic flight will be' much like those of today’s Jet Clippers. Design of the Concorde provides full visibility for passengers, and this will undoubtedly be true of the U.S. version of the SST. Take-off, initial climb toward cruising altitude, descent and landing will be at normal, comfortable jet speeds, though at somewhat steeper angles. Except for the view passing steadily below, at supersonic cruising speed it will probably be difficult to sense the motion.
Will meals be served on Supersonic Clippers?
It looks as if Pan Am’s world-famous cuisine will be tickling air travelers’ palates well into the supersonic age. As on present-day subsonic Clippers, a choice of First Class or Economy service will be
F-7 FOKKER — 1 927
PAN AM’S CONCORDE
available to Pan Am travelers. At the present stage of planning it can be said that: whatever meal service practices apply to subsonic Clippers at the time supersonic service starts, will carry over to Supersonic Clippers.
Will supersonic flights affect regular traffic at airports?
No. Runway length for the SST will be no greater than for large subsonic jets — about 11,000 feet. In performance at landing — speed, glide slope, maintenance of holding patterns over the airport — it will be “just another aircraft”.
These requirements of compatibility are a challenge to the designers of both versions of the SST, particularly in respect to airframe and engine, both of which will be adaptable to extremes of subsonic and supersonic flight conditions. The Concorde is already developing according to specifications. The larger, faster U.S. SST will still be capable of operating within the required limits of compatibility.
LOCKHEED CONSTELLATION — 1947
What about noise levels?
As in the early stages of every major step forward, there are still some areas in which the final determinations have not been reached. One of
these areas is that of noise level. Designers of the enormously powerful SST engines are well aware of the need to keep noise levels within acceptable standards and are working with increasing success toward the solution of this problem. Actually, it has not been definitely established that a serious problem exists. For example, the SST’s special ability to climb quickly may, in itself, prove a large factor in controlling noise levels near airports.
There is also, of course, the sonic boom situation, once the SST has reached cruising altitude and speed. Passengers will have no awareness that their plane is creating sonic boom — the double wave of air pressure that streams from the nose and tail of a craft traveling faster than sound. As yet, a reliable means of eliminating sonic boom has not been developed. However, as with all pioneering steps, awareness of the problem is the first step toward solution. Actual operating experience with SST aircraft is a natural prerequisite of any design or operational changes that may be called for. And many of the elements involved are under constant study, based on experience with operational military aircraft. As with past problems related to progress, a solution must — and therefore will — be found.