in just a
few hours ... a gleaming
Jet Clipper will fly you direct to the fairylands of the North—to Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. (Or, if you wish, you can visit these wonderful countries on many European itineraries — at no extra fare.) You’ll fly with the world’s most experienced airline — in trusted U. S. hands all the way—and you’ll enjoy the comfort and peace of mind that only Pan American’s priceless extra of experience can give you.
Your choice of Jet service to Scandinavia includes luxurious President Special, the most princely First Class service anywhere — with extra attendants, more room, haute cuisine, complimentary cocktails, vintage wines and liqueurs—or gay, thrifty Rainbow, the world-famous Pan Am economy service that features cloud-soft reclining chairs, delicious hot meals — and, of course, Pan Am’s traditionally friendly service.
Whenever — and Wherever
You Go ... be sure to ask about special Pan Am excursions and other reduced-fare services that may be in effect at the time you plan to travel. There are often really substantial savings available. (Get all the details from your Travel Agent or local Pan Am office.)
And remember . . . there’s no need to wait: GO now — pay later! With Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan, a small down payment is all you need.
The Happy Land of the Midnight Sun awaits
•V
gentle, orderly kingdom smiling country of many islands From the moment you step off the plane you’ll fall in love with the neat, sparkling quality of the lovely Danish landscape. The country is beautifully suited for touring — roads are fine and all the various islands are connected by excellent bridges and ferries. Be sure to visit Hans Christian Andersen’s home on Funen Island and Hamlet’s castle (Kronborg) only 28 miles north of Copenhagen. Copenhagen, the capital, gayest of the Northern cities, is famous for her friendly charm, her restaurants and hotels, for the bargains in her beautiful shops, and specially for her amazing Tivoli Gardens — a huge amusement center right in the center of the city.
largest and richest of the four friendly nations
A vigorous, highly industrialized land, Sweden has the highest standard of living of any nation in Europe. Energy and good taste are Swedish characteristics and the result is a perfect blend of the old and the new: in Sweden, ancient medieval buildings stand right next to magnificent skyscrapers in complete harmony. As for the landscape, it is idyllic — and a unique way of appreciating it is to take a leisurely trip on the Gota Canal, between Gothenburg and Stockholm. The canal is at times so narrow that you’ll think you’re sailing right through the countryside . . . with cows pasturing only a few feet away!
NORWAY
land of the fjords . . . from where theVikings set out
Norway is unspoiled and romantic. The cities are ancient, the landscape is wild and mountainous, and the people are wonderfully friendly. One of the best ways to enjoy Norway, if time permits, is to take a luxurious cruise along the deeply indented coast to the Northern regions of the Midnight Sun: you’ll never forget the breathless stillness of the fjords . . . the Laplanders driving their herds of reindeer . . . and stark Hammerfest, most Northern city in Europe, where the sun never sets for months on end.
FINLAND
fiercely independent land of 60,000 lakes
One of the world’s most progressive countries (the literacy rate is the world’s highest!), Finland is a hospitable paradise of vast virgin forests ... of swift cascading streams ... of friendly toy-like towns... and of course of lakes. Thousands and thousands of tree-bordered, crystal-clear lakes form a fascinating system of inland waterways. As everywhere else in the Northern countries, Finnish train and bus services are excellent — but here you can enjoy “water-buses,” too . . . from city to city . . . from lake to lake. Take a trip to the Lake Saimaa district. And devote at least a full day to sparkling, modern Helsinki.
Fine craftsmanship and design
have always been a distinctive mark of the Scandinavian people. This is seen in the many relics of their fabulous past—in the intricate engravings on the Rhunic Stones that dot the scenery . . . in the countless bronzes and ancient artifacts ...in the marvelous design and workmanship of the Viking ships preserved in Oslo. Today the descendants of those great craftsmen have made Scandinavian furniture, glassware, ceramics and handicrafts famous throughout the world. Be sure to visit the shops of some of these artists during your trip . . . you’re likely to discover some wonderful “bargain”, some exquisite object you’ll treasure for years to come.
modern
design