PARKER TELL YOU
_MyU
V hen we said “hello'’ to our Hillman Minx in London (same day we ar-rived), we said “goodby” to crowded busses and trains — bid a long farewell to the old budget-born necessity of only three days in England ... a week for all France. We took to the highroads — and byroads — of Britain in a sturdy, smooth-driving car of our own. Stopped at storybook country inns
and most other things — for a song .
. . bought fabulous treasures stretched those three days into two leisurely weeks.	\
And that was just the beginning! The poplar-lined roads of France led us	wt\
f	\ I
to Paris, where Joe drove down the Champs Elysees as though he owned it.	"
We found Belgium lovely . . . the Tyrol, enchanting. There was even time	\	\\
for an unforgettable week-end among the Alps, before we drove on to eternally	I
beautiful Borne. Joe worried some about languages when we started the con-	V) /
tinental part of our trip, but we soon found that a combination of English	1	l//
and our high school French saw us through quite nicely. And — would you	....
-4,	believe it — our little Minx gave us 30 miles of faithful service for each	|
gallon of “petrol”.
a	Back in London, our speedometer told us we’d traveled over 6000 delightful
miles in those few short weeks. Joe had worked in some business along the way. We’d done everything we’d planned — and much, much more. And we were the richer by a host of pleasant memories. Best of all — we had a smart,
Alt	serviceable car that would follow us home, give us the same pleasure on the
‘	highways of America that it did on our holiday abroad.
HILLMAN MINX LUMBER
SUNBEAM-TALBOT
ROVER
— J............qj|-..\_/ nly 12 short hours from New York to London. Imagine it! Joe and I
spent the first one just getting used to the idea of cruising along at
nearly six miles a minute without any sensation of speed. I asked Joe
how air travel could possibly be so smooth. lie said it was because we
were flying “above the weather”, in the untroubled upper air.
JC •**	After we’d written a few postcards and chatted awhile with the nice	> U|
couple across the aisle, we were served a delicious, piping-hot meal pre-	_
f‘ r4	.	Si	•
pared right on board. We must have slept like babies, too, for the first	'*1 \j£aS
I thing we knew, our stewardess was waking us gently and telling us we	^1
were nearly there! It couldn’t have been a more delightful trip, and	^ TJu,
coming home again was every bit as much fun.	v	^
Pan American President and de luxe President Special Services are also available through the Clipper-and-Car Plan, at slightly higher prices.
Pam Am er [cam World Airways
ROOTES MOTORS, INC
505 Park Avenue New York 22, N. Y.
I’d like to know more
about the new Pan American-Rootes budget plan for seeing Europe NOW, in a car of my own. I understand this request does not obligate me in any way.
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY
(Fill in and mail to above address.)