HOW ANNE AND JOE PARKER GOT A NEW CAR AND A TRIP TO EUROPE
fo4 jadt $967
(It would have been even less in Thrift Season . . . $932.)
•	2 round trip air fares, New York- London, on Pan American’s Rainbow Service
•	1 Hillman Minx 4-door sedan
•	World-wide liability, fire and theft and collision insurance for 18 months
•	Car registration, license plates and international touring documents
PAN AM’S
&MiSûU/ FLIGHTS
GBT YOU TO EUROPE
IN QUICK TIME
A
few short hours is all it takes—in a giant Pan Am Clipper. You’ll fly high above surface weather . . . enjoy delicious meals prepared right on board . . . relax in huge reclining chairs. And the speedy Clipper trip adds fun-packed weeks to your vacation abroad. New York-London round trip fare is only $522. During Thrift Season (November through March) it drops to only $425.
(See chart on back cover for details.)
E
very spring the Parkers buried themselves in travel folders (the way some people do with seed catalogs) planning that trip of a lifetime abroad. And each summer they paid their usual visit to Lake Awagawan. For although Joe’s business was pretty light during July and August, and the time could be spared, they just didn’t have enough money for the kind of trip they’d planned.
An off-the-beaten-path kind of trip — at their own pace. No hurried tours ... no crowded trains. The chance to spend an extra day ... an extra week where they pleased ... to visit the charming unspoiled corners of a dozen countries ... to know the people. That was the Parkers’ annual dream tour of Europe. And suddenly it all came true — when the Parkers found out about the exciting Clipper-and-Car Plan for seeing Europe now, paying for most of the Plan later on. A brand new service offered jointly by Pan American World Airways and the Rootes Group, makers of the Hillman Minx, most popular foreign car in the U.S.A., and other smartly styled business and sports models.
HERE’S HOW THE PARKERS DID IT
Anne and Joe found it easy to purchase their Hillman Minx over here for delivery over there. They simply went to an experienced Pan Am travel agent who handled the air portion of their trip and arranged through Rootes Motors and their local dealer for delivery of the car in Europe.
When the tour was over, the Parkers’ car followed them home, without extra cost. And, since all Rootes cars under this plan are made to American specifications, they had a choice of continuing to drive it at home — where over 700 Rootes dealers provide fast, efficient servicing — or selling at an attractive price.
And $967 down was all they paid. One-third of the cost of two round trip Clipper flights and their new Hillman Minx. The balance was spread out in easy monthly payments over an 18-month period. Just like buying any new car, but lots more fun.
Want to know more? Just fill out and mail the coupon on the inside of this folder. Learn how you can have the European vacation of your dreams, the easy, economical Clipper-and-Car way.

SOON AFTER YOUR ARRIVAL YOU’RE ON YOUR OWN-
IN YOUR OWN hillman~JTLL/zx
You’ll find the model you’ve chosen all ready for you — whenever you want it. A Rootes representative will be on hand with licenses, driving instructions, helpful tips on European travel.
There are these four Hillman Minx models to choose from. And for those who prefer a larger car, Humbers, Sunbeam-Talbots, and Rover models are also available.
