How jet engines work... and why they work better
Actually, the jet engine is simpler in construction and operation than the piston-driven engine used on airplanes up to this time. As a matter of fact, the piston-engine pioneers should be given special glory for having had the courage to create a machine which demanded split second timing of stroke, compression, combustion and exhaust, coordinated with a vast number of precision parts moving contrary to one another. Jet propulsion has no such intricate mechanical problems. Let's use Sir Isaac Newton's Third Law for a simple explanation for the use of jet for forward motion. The Law states that every action
produces a reaction which is equal in force and opposite in direction. This law should dispel the popular belief that a jet plane receives its forward thrust from the blast of a jet against a cushion of air.
As an example of this, take a toy balloon and blow it up. Now, when you hold it tightly by the nozzle, there is no action. The compressed air in the balloon exerts equal force or pressure on all sides.
Now, if you release the nozzle ... the balloon sails forth because the escaping air creates an unbalanced pressure inside the balloon. Pressure against the top side is stronger than the pressure against the opposite side through which the air is escaping. This pushes the balloon up-
ward. The action of released air produces the reaction which drives the balloon in the opposite direction.
So, you see there is power in compressed air. Adding fuel to compressed air and burning it intensifies the power. Simply stated, that's what a jet engine is all about. The fuel and compressed air are mixed and burned in combustion chambers and the expanded heat is jetted through a nozzle to the rear. The pressure pushes with a force which gives the airplane its thrust.
Jet Engine
The first Jet Clippers were powered with Pratt & Whitney J-3 engines. Air is pulled in at the front (left in picture), compressed, mixed with fuel, burned, passed through turbines and exhausted aft. An improved version of this same engine, used in the Intercontinental Jet Clipper, bears the number J-4.
Turbofan Engine
In the Turbofan — this one is the Pratt & Whitney JT3D(TF33) — a set of fans pulls in and pushes back additional air which flows around the engine, in addition to that which passes through the turbines. The fans here are forward; left in the photo. Moving more air at lower speed and lower temperature, the Turbofan gets more thrust with less fuel, thus increasing both speed and range, plus a dividend of quieter operation.
20