AUSTRALIA
Barrier Reef, and the Gold Coast. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car is at 55 Charlotte Street, Brisbane (tel: 2216166).
ACCOMMODATIONS
Not as varied as in New South Wales. Hotels in Brisbane (downtown area):
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Carlton Hotel, 103 Queen Street (from $25.30)
Crest International Hotel, King George Square (from $43.70) Lennons Plaza Hotel, 66 Queen Street (from $44.30)
Parkroyal Motor Inn, Corner Alice & Albert Streets (from $48.30) TraveLodge Motel, 355 Main Street, Kangaroo Point (from $40.25) Zebra Motel, 103 George Street (from $36.25)
EATING AND ENTERTAINMENT
There are some good restaurants and good tropical sea’f ood, too—barra-mundi, red emperor, coral cod, and the local specialty, mud crabs and great tropical fruit. Some good restaurants are Captain Cook’s Cabin (243 George Street—tel: 217334) for seafood; Wine Cellar (327 Queen Street, opposite Piccadilly Arcade—tel: 219436), which has the largest stocks of wine in Brisbane; the Living Room (at the Garden’s end of edward Street—tel: 212805), where you wine and dine while watching live theater.
SPORTS
Fishing, tennis, golf, sailing, surfing, skin-diving; but don’t just dive in. Many Queensland resorts have surf patrols, and swimming at supervised beaches is strongly recommended.
WHAT TO SEE
Inland, the Lamington National Park, is a beautiful area of unspoiled mountain country about 70 miles south of Brisbane. Some flora and fauna here are unknown in the rest of the world—the lyre bird, for example, that takes the voice it last heard; or a forest of 3,000-year-old Atlantic beeches (nut bearing tree). You can stay in reasonable comfort at the Green Mountain guest house or Binna Bura Lodge. An easy outing is to Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary to mingle with those lovable living teddy bears. Take the river launch for a leisurely cruise.
The Gold Coast is a throbbing stretch of sandy beaches and curling surf for those who love the sun, sand, sea, and their fellow creatures. The strip abounds in hotels, restaurants, and entertainments, among which are the Mudgeeraba boomerang factory; the Currumbin bird sanctuary, where at a signal flocks of lorikeets flutter in to perch on your head and arms; Jack Evan’s Porpoise Pool, Marineland, and Sea World, which have daily shows with performing dolphins and other marine life; Fleay’s Fauna Reserve at Burleigh Heads; and the Auto Museum at Kirra. At Surfers Paradise, there are daily water-skiing shows, speedboat rides, floor shows, and bowling lanes. Some prefer the quieter beaches north of