AUSTRALIA
EATING AND ENTERTAINMENT
The seafoods in Tasmania are the island’s specialty, notably the scallops and lobster. In Hobart the best restaurants are attached to the hotels. The Wrest Point Riviera Casino (tel: 2501122) is situated overlooking the beautiful Derwent River, only 5 minutes from the city. It offers gambling and nightly entertainment. The Chart Room at the TraveLodge (tel: 344422) is also very good. Small restaurants in the city are the Ristro (tel: 344650), the Dutch Inn (tel: 236063), and several Chinese and Italian restaurants. There are numerous movie houses and a few small theaters in Hobart. Nightlife is pretty much limited to hotel dancing, although the Wrest Point and Carlyle hotels do have a good floor show.
SHOPPING
Hobart’s two main department stores, Fitzgeralds and Myers, have everything. For souvenirs, try Rembrandts, Wards, or Ashtons.
SPORTS
Hobart is a very popular yachting center, conditions being ideal for sailing, with inumerable small bays and inlets. The annual Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race, is one of the major events of the year for the world’s yachtsmen. Tasmania is also a popular place for hikers. The rugged mountains that cover large sections of the country are ideal for those feeling energetic. Fishing is excellent.
WHAT TO SEE
Hobart is picturesque little town nestling under Mount Wellington,
which rises to 4,166 feet above sea level. The 14-mile ride to the peak gives you a majestic view of the city. From Hobart you can go on a cruise up the Derwent River to New Norfolk and the salmon hatcheries. A day trip up to the Huon Valley, the principal orchard district, is rewarding— especially if you return via the D’Entrecasteaux Channel with its lovely seascapes. Sixty miles from Hobart is Port Arthur, the oldest penal colony on the island. The dreaded Eaglehawk Neck and the crumbling ruins of the old guardhouse stand in memory of the convict days. Renovated National Trust Houses are worth visiting and a good starting point is the gift shop and information center at 25 Kingsway Place, Hobart (tel: 348289). This cottage was built by a local flour miller in 1875.
Launceston to the north is the second largest city in Tasmania, an area of parks and gardens set among rolling hills. Cataract Gorge, only 10 minutes from the city center, was chiseled out by the South Esk River. Nearby are the Cataract Cliff Grounds and Park. Entally National House is furnished with prized antiques from colonial days. The spring wildflowers at Cradle Mountain-Lake St Clair National Park are glorious and attract hundreds of people every year. Tasmania’s east coast, with its beautiful beaches and good fishing areas, has many popular holiday resorts; St Helens is a good example. The west coast is rugged and densely forested. You can see much of this area by taking the Lyall Highway into Queenstown and a boat trip from there up the River