NEW ZEALAND
AIRPORT INFORMATION
International Airport, Auckland, is 13 miles from the city. Airport buses connect with all aircraft arrivals. Fare is $NZ2.50. Taxis are available at all times—fare NZ$10 for two people. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car is at the following airports: Auckland (tel: 55-155); Christchurch (tel: 428-665), Wellington (887-070). There is an airport departure tax of $NZ2. The airport has a duty-free shop and hotel reservations counter.
ACCOMMODATIONS
There is no official grading of hotels, but there are good ones in the principal cities and tourist areas and standard hotels elsewhere. Inexpensive accommodations at guest houses and motels are generally available. Motels often cost about half the price of hotels, and most of them have complete cooking facilities and inevitably a pint of milk in the refrigerator. Some sheep stations and farms take paying guests, providing an unusual way of seeing huge farming areas. Reductions of various kinds are often made in off-peak seasons. The New Zealand Government Tourist Bureau will give helpful advice and information. Trailer camps, or camp sites, are very popular. As they are to be found in places of great natural beauty, they are often very pleasant. The New Zealand Automobile Association will give details. The Tourist Hotel Corporation (THC) runs a chain of hotels in national parks and resort areas. Hotels in New Zealand:
Rates are in US$ for double/twin room with bath or shower
Abel Tasman Hotel, Willis & Dixon Streets, Wellington (from $32) Airport Inn, Massey Road at Mangere, 2 miles from International Airport, Auckland (from $35.00)
Auckland TraveLodge, 96-100 Quay Street, Auckland (from $42.00) Burma Lodge, Burma Road, Johnsonville, Wellington (from $28) Clarendon, 78 Worcester Street, Christchurch (from $26)
INTER • CONTINENTAL AUCKLAND, Corner Waterloo Quadrant and Princes Street, Auckland (from $43)
James Cook, The Terrace, Wellington (from $42.00)
Noah’s Hotel, Worcester Street and Oxford Terrace, Christchurch (from $42.50)
Royal International, Victoria Street West, Auckland (from $29) Russleys, Roydvale Street, 2 miles from airport, Christchurch (from $31)
St George, Corner Willis gpd Boulcott Streets, Wellington (from $28) Shaw Savill Lodge, Kemp Street, Kilbirnie, Wellington, about a mile from the airport (from $28)
South Pacific, Corner Queen and Custom Streets, Auckaland (from $40.00)
United Service, PO Box 44, Cathedral Square, Christchurch (from $33)
Vacation Hotel, 187 Campbell Road, One Tree Hill, Auckland (from $36)