AUSTRALIA
tel: 515211)—these are the most elegant restaurants. For fun, try Peanuts Restaurant (389 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne—tel: 671410; or Poppa’s Pizza Parlour (Toorak Road, South Yarra—tel: 246736). One hour’s drive from the city into the near hills brings you to several excellent dining places such as The Baron of Beef (Sherbrooke Forest—tel: 7501220) for fine beef and jolly entertainment; The Cuckoo for an excellent smorgasbord (tel: 7511003).
ENTERTAINMENT
Larger movie houses which show first-run films are in the main city block. The Melbourne Symphony Orchestra presents a concert season from August to September at the Town Hall, and in summer concerts are regularly staged at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. Opera and ballet are performed at the Palais Theater and Her Majesty’s, musical entertainment at Tikki and John’s, Exhibition St (call for advance reservations: 6631756)
There are nightclubs attached to the leading hotels. Other clubs are the Troika (17 Beach Road, Hampton—tel: 982176), with its gypsy music, dancing, and floor shows; the Pickwick (176 Toorak Road, South Yarra—tel: 244091); the Taboo (16 Esplanade, St. Kilda—tel: 941359); and the Distillery (519 St Kilda Road).
SHOPPING
Most of the city’s shops are centered on Collins, Bourke, and Swanston Streets. Myers department store is the largest and sells just about everything. This area is riddled with arcades of small shops selling everything you could desire. George’s of Collins Street is a more exclusive store. Australian opals can be purchased from one of a number of shops in the Southern Cross Hotel complex.
SPORTS
Melbourne is “Australian Rules” football crazy, and throughout the winter (May-Sept) Saturday matches are crowded and exciting. “Aussie Rules” is a hard, fast game with long kicks and quick hand passes and high thrilling catches called “marks.” It started in the 1850’s, based on Gaelic Football. The Melbournians are also very fond of racing, and Flemington Race Course is the scene of many big events, especially of the famed Melbourne Cup held on the first Tuesday in November. Facilities for golf, tennis, bowls, and swimming are all excellent. There are some good beaches south of the city and many pools in the city itself.
WHAT TO SEE
From Flinders Street Station move south down the tree-lined boulevard, St Kilda Road, where you will see the National Gallery, a superb new building that houses a beautiful displayed, extensive collection of Australian and European paintings and artifacts. Make sure you lie on the floor of the Great Hall and admire the roof created by Robert French. Across the road, you can walk into the glorious green of the Botanical