NEW ZEALAND
and tramping (long-distance mountain walking) through some of the world’s most exciting scenery is very popular—contact the New Zealand Federation of Mountaineering Clubs (PO Box 1604, Wellington). For mountain climbing, contact the New Zealand Alpine Club (PO Box 2211, Christchurch).
Skiing: Some of the world’s best snow playgrounds stretch for miles over unspoiled, open country, unrestricted by timber. Contact the New Zealand Ski Association (PO Box 2213, Wellington). Mount Ruapehu in the North Island is reached from Chateau Tongariro. Mount Cook and the Alpine range are in the South Island. Equipment can normally be rented through hotels. Try THC Glencoe Motor Inn, Mount Cook, and THC Hermitage, Mount Cook. Horse-racing meetings are held at Auckland and Wellington. Christchurch and Dunedin feature flat racing and the popular harness racing.
WHAT TO SEE
North Island—The most populated island: The two cities of Wellington and Auckland lie about 250 miles apart on the North Island. There are three road routes linking them and these cover all the chief attractions of the North Island.
Auckland, the city in which visitors first arrive, is placed astride two seas, Waitemata Harbor and Manukau Harbor, which provide contrasting glorious views. The town is built on sloping hills, surrounded by forests. A scenic drive displays the seaside location. Mount Eden, behind the town, was once a Maori fort; here and from nearby One Tree Hill, there is a magnificent view. The War Memorial Museum in 200 acres of gardens houses one of the best Maori collections in the world. The Zoological Park has specimens of the unique kiwi. Several airlines arrange “Flightseeing” trips over the city and its surroundings, with glimpses of the South Island across the Strait. The Bay of Islands, 140 miles north of Auckland, is wonderful for water sports and fishing. Close by is Treaty House, where the Treaty of Waitangi was signed. For hotels in this area try THC Waitangi (Waitangi, Bay of Islands), double room from US$40; or the Duke of Marlborough (The Strand, Russell, Bay of Islands), double room from US$22.
Wellington, the capital since 1865, is another superbly situated city surrounded by steep hills. There are cable cars running up to fine views. There are city bus trips and aerial tours. The Dominion Museum and Art Gallery hold displays of Maori and South Sea Island art and life. The Botanical Gardens (over 63 acres) have beautiful flower displays, especially over Christmas, which, of course, falls in high summer. The Ngau-ranga Gorge gives access to West Coast swimming resorts. Petone, 8 miles away, has a memorial to the first settlers—a replica of the bow of their ship and a stained-glass window. Some good restaurants in Wellington are Orsini’s (201 Cuba Street—tel: 845-474), the Mermaid (Shaw Savill Lodge, Kemp Street, Kilbirnie—tel: 872-189), Beefeater Arms (105-109 The Terrace—tel: 738-195), Plimmer House (99 Boulcott Street—tel: 721-872d), the Coachman (46 Courtenay Place—tel: 848-