AUSTRALIA
mile from the city center); Swaine’s Seafood Restaurant (207 Glen Osmond Road, Frewville); Decca’s Place (93 Melbourne St, North Adelaide); and the Magic Flute (109 Melbourne St, North Adelaide).
SPORTS
People fish this coast for white shark and tuna—Yorke Peninsula and Kangaroo Island are two key spots. At the mouth of the Murray there is excellent wildfowling country. Otherwise, the full range of Australian sports, including some good beaches and municipal golf courses, is found in the city itself.
WHAT TO SEE
Start with the beautifully laid out city itself, its gardens and lawns by the lake, the Victorian suburban homes of North Adelaide with their lacy ironwork, and Melbourne Street for its boutiques, wine cellars, and vine-covered walks. Visit the Adelaide Festival Center, King William’s Road, and nearby Tuirens Lake, where you can rent boats. Easily reached are the Mount Lofty ranges, from which you can see over the whole area in the evening. And a whole group of nature reserves are set in enthralling scenery: the Cleland, Morialta Falls, Torrens Gorge, Parrawirra,, and Belair—where there’s also the old Government House, now a museum. South Australia is where the opals are mined. A trip to Coober Pedy is recommended only for those who believe in beginners’ luck and can stand temperatures up to 110°, but there is no lack of reputable dealers in Adelaide who will sell stones hot from the field. A six-day trip can be made into really rugged outback country in the Flinders Ranges. Accommodations are available at Wilpena Pound and Arkaroola. In contrast, you could take a five-day trip on an old paddle-steamer down the Murray River (A$174 per person), a lazy, sunny way to see some of Australia’s richest pioneer country. But the four-star visit is to the Barossa Valley, where German immigrants so hopefully planted their vineyards. Now they are thriving “wineries” producing wines, sherries, and ports to compare with the European originals.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION
Pan Am, Aston House, 17 Leigh Street, Adelaide—tel: 512821; South Australia Government Tourist Bureau, 18 King William Street, Adelaide—tel: 513281.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
CAPITAL
Perth, population 843,800. This is the largest state, the most sparsely populated, the state with greatest potential. It’s rather like new California. Things are moving in Western Australia; to the south, new agricultural techniques are reclaiming the desert; to the north unimaginably huge deposits of minerals are being mined. Perth is a beautiful city, but for the most part this land is notable for the vastness of