AUSTRALIA
Bathurst Island or Melville Island. Pukamumi poles, carved and painted by aborigines, are a prominent feature of Darwin itself. Accommodation here is adequate, but not luxurious. If you want to hunt buffalo, crocodile, or other wildlife, note that this is a strictly enforced conservation area, and you will do best to arrange to stay in one of the properly organized safari camps.
Alice Springs is in the center—the parched heart—of this continent; only a remarkable town could survive. “The Alice” has a population of only 13,800, but it fairly hums with life. By day it is a busy little town, filled in winter with tourists exploring the heartland. By night there are many bars in full swing—even nightclubs—and the sound of aborigine corroborrees from the dry bed of the Todd River. Accommodations and facilities are increasing annually. It is virtually the only base from which you can explore the remarkable and beautiful natural features of this area. Ayers Rock, 275 miles southwest of Alice Springs, is the most famous. This is a gigantic red monolith rising from the desert— awesomely beautiful and long sacred to the aborigines, who have left their paintings on the walls of its caves. It changes color and aspect magically at sunset and sunrise, and it is possible to get 30 different pictures in as many minutes. Nearby is Mount Olga, a more modest sister to the Rock, which anywhere else would be a tourist attraction in itself. A trip here is most valuable if it includes an overnight stay. Nearer to Alice are brilliantly colored Standley Chasm, Glen Helen, and Ormiston Gorges—spectacular chasms. Remarkable in a different way is Palm Valley, where a living fossil grows—the Livistona Maviae palm, found nowhere else in the world. A trip to this desert is usually combined with a visit to sacred aborigine sites and the Hermannsburg Mission. Such excursions are usually made by four-wheel-drive vehicles, since there are no roads. An illuminating experience is to travel with the mail pilot on his run here to visit the largest cattle range in the world—over 1,000,000 acres. In the Alice itself are several interesting visits: the Pitchi-Ritchi Museum and Bird Sanctuary, the old telegraph station and its schoolhouse by the Springs, the flying doctor service, and the School of the Air.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION
Northern Territory Tourist Bureau, 27 Smith Street, Darwin NT 5790— tel: 816611. Information on camping and national park attractions from The Territory Parks and Wildlife Commission, Gap Road, Alice Springs—tel: 522788.
QUEENSLAND
CAPITAL
Brisbane, population 995,140. Over half of Queensland is in the tropics— some of it still unsettled. Called the Sunshine State, it certainly can be among the warmest places in Australia. Apart from some beautiful country ranging from jungle to mountain, downs and desert, it has two famous tourist attractions: the coral gardens and islands of the Great