NEW ZEALAND
White Heron Lodge, 138 St Stephen’s Avenue, Parnell, Auckland (from $32)
Unless otherwise noted, the above hotels are centrally located.
USEFUL INFORMATION
Banks: Open 10-4, Mon-Fri. Banking facilities at International Airport. There are banks throughout the country, and travelers’ checks can be changed at large city hotels and in some shops.
Mail: Red mailboxes are attached to street lamp posts.
Telephone Tips: There are telephone booths and public phones available in many restaurants; they are coin-operated. A local call is NZ6<P. Useful numbers in Auckland:
Pan Am reservations 34-164	Airport Information Mangere
New Zealand Government	Tourist	56-324
Board 798-180	Accommodations Offices
Directories 102	Hotels	794-660
Emergencies 111	Motels	799-444
Newspapers: Local	and	national	newspapers	are in English; they
include the New Zealand Herald, Evening Post, The Press, and the Otago Daily Times.
Tipping: Tipping is still not general, though with the growth of tourism it is becoming more widespread. Usually 10$ in restaurants and to hotel lounge waiters (barmen are not tipped). Porters and hall porters get NZ10C or NZ20<P for each piece of baggage handled. Taxi drivers receive this if they help with baggage, otherwise they are not tipped.
Electricity: 230 volts 50 cycles AC.
Laundry: There are good laundry and dry-cleaning facilities in the cities, many with 24-hour services, and there are laundromats in the principal cities. The major hotels also have good services. Average cost to dry’ clean a suit, from NZ$2.50; to launder a shirt from NZ$1.
Hairdressing: There are good hairdressing salons in the towns, but only a few in the hotels. Shampoo and set costs from NZ$5 to 8; men’s haircut, from NZ$3. Tipping is not usual.
Photography: Black and white and color film are available everywhere. There are reliable developing services—24 hours for black and white, up to a week for color. Black and white film costs about NZ$1.25, color NZ$3.
Clubs: Rotary, Lions, Jaycees, Zonta, Kimonia, Overseas League, Royal Commonwealth Society, Travel Club, English Speaking Union of Kiwanis—all have branches in the principal cities. Local Public Relations offices will give details of meetings.
Babysitting: Available in large towns. Information can be found at hotels, or in the local telephone directory.
Rest Rooms: There are public facilities in streets, as well as in restaurants, some shops and some gas stations.
Health: A high standard of medical, hospital and dental services is nationwide. Imported pharmaceuticals and toiletries are available. Water is good. Overseas tourists are eligible for New Zealand’s Accident Compensation Program.