AUSTRALIA
every week: tennis at Rushcutters Bay, rugby football in winter, cricket in summer, horse-racing and show jumping around Easter. And for skiers, the Snowy Mountains are at their best in September.
WHAT TO SEE
To get a good view of the city, first climb to a vantage point such as the Harbor Bridge, or the observation floor of the AMP building—which has a coffee lounge—or the 48th floor of Australia Square tower (A$l). Then take a ferry ride from Circular Quay—preferably to Taronga Zoo and Aquarium. These will give you a good idea of Sydney’s superb situation. For an inkling of its history, walk around the Old Rocks area near the bridge. Old buildings to see areCadman’s Cottage, the Customs House, the Conservatorium of Music, the Technical College, the two Georgian buildings by the convict architect, Greenway—the Law Courts and St. James’s Church (all within walking distance of the center). The drop in at the Australian Museum in College Street to get an even broader view in time and space of the continent you’re on. Looking to the future, you must see the fabulous Opera House, its concrete spires flying like sails on the waters of the harbor. If interested in modern art, go to the Art Gallery of New South Wales, in the Domain. Try at all costs to catch a Surf Carnival (weekends in summer).
Trips out of the city could include a day up in the Blue Mountains— only 40 miles away. Here are the famous Jenolan Caves and a forest/scrub, generally called “Bush,” nature reserve. Or take a meandering water trip on the pastoral Berowra Waters and Hawkesbury River, or a Jolly Swagman tour, which flies you to a sheep station inland and introduces you to the facts of Australian life—ending with a barbecue in the outback. The Ku-ring-gai Chase is a nearby park and nature reserve with aboriginal rock paintings that may be 8,000 years old. Another such reserve not too far away, with animals in their habitat, is Waratah Park. A more ambitious excursion is to Mount Kosciusko and the great Snowy Mountain Project. You could ski here in August (several resort hotels), or follow trails in January and at any time marvel at one of the world’s greatest feats of civil engineering. Whole rivers have been turned back through mountains to irrigate the parched interior and provide electric power. For keen deep-sea fishermen, the southern coast is well worth visiting, other tourists may be interested to see how poisonous snakes can be handled at the Gosford Reptile Park, just over a hour North from Sydney.
There are three times of year that are special in Sydney: the Christmas and New Year Holiday, which calls for carols by candlelight, carnivals and merrymaking by night on the beaches; the Festival of Sydney, a month-long program of entertainment and amusement, is launched with a gala musical concert to herald the new year at the opera house. More than 100,000 Sydneysiders participate; the Royal Easter Show for a grand gathering of cattle, horses and horsemen, sheepdogs, and axemen; and the Waratah Festival.