AUSTRALIA
Auckland. Flying time from New York 21 hours, Los Angeles 15*2 hours, Honolulu 10 hours, Nadi 4M hours, Auckland 3 hours. Time in Sydney: GMT + 10.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ENTRY AND CUSTOMS REGULATIONS
Passport, visa, and round-trip ticket required. Vaccination certificate is also required unless the visitor arrives from New Zealand, the US, or certain South Pacific Islands; cholera and yellow-fever certificates if coming from infected areas. No limit on importing currency. Visitors staying in Australia less than six months may export currency only up to the value of the currency they entered with. Duty-free allowance: 200 cigarettes or 250 grams of tobacco; 1 quart liquor.
AIRPORT INFORMATION
(See under New South Wales and Victoria.)
ACCOMMODATIONS
This big cities have a wide range from luxury to inexpensive; motels are spreading all over the country. But don’t expect to explore everywhere in luxury. Australians are not fussy and don’t expect you to be. There are hotels in most towns for traveling workers (Australian workers move around a lot), and the climate and country in the coastal areas and southeastern Australia are ideal for campers. See individual regions for details.
USEFUL INFORMATION
Helpful Hints: In general, the one thing Australians hate is “putting on airs.” Friendliness will get you everywhere. Dress is extremely informal at home and in resorts, slightly more formal in the cities.
Banks: Some downtown banks open 10-6 Mon-Fri, but services after 3 p.m. are restricted to savings accounts. A very useful institution is the Bank of New South Wales. It has branches almost everywhere and also acts as a travel agent and adviser.
Mail: Stamps can be bought at some newspaper dealers and stores as well as at post offices. Mailboxes are red.
Telephone Tips: They are all coin-operated, with operating details posted in telephone booths.
Tipping: 10$ in hotels and restaurants. Tipping as a habit is not approved of, and a tip at the wrong time can offend.
Electricity: 240 volts AC—occasionally DC in the country.
Laundry: As good and easy to find as anywhere in the world. Hairdressing: There are good salons in the cities and some hotels. Women’s shampoo and set from A$10; men’s haircuts from A$2-5.00.
Photography: Film and equipment easy to buy. Processing in 48 hours in the cities.
Health: Dentists, doctors, and hospitals are excellent. Water and milk can be drunk everywhere without fear. The only dangers to health are sharks, snakes, and heat. To avoid these heed local advice. Don’t swim at