NEW ZEALAND
applies. New Zealand is not a country of leisurely social drinking, although there are some delightful drinking spots.
ENTERTAINMENT
The standard of musical and theatrical life in New Zealand is improving. The New Zealand Symphony Orchestra tours the country giving concerts. All the large cities have professional theater groups. There are several Maori music concerts, and touring artists from Australia, the UK, and America visit frequently. The major cities have a few nightclubs and many pubs offer live entertainment. Movie houses show current British and American films. The pastoral and agricultural life of the country is reflected in the big national and regional agricultural shows, the country’s biggest get-togethers and entertainment, with sheep-shearing and tree-falling contests. Auckland has its Easter Show in April or May, its Royal Agricultural and Pastoral Show in November.
SHOPPING
Stores are open 9-5 Mon-Thurs; 9-9pm Friday; closed Saturday and Sunday. Jewelry made from the iridescent paua shell set in silver is charming and Maori handicrafts are attractive—they are expert wood carvers and also make ornaments out of greenstone, which looks like jade. These can mainly be found on the North Island. Sheepskin rugs are good and so are all kinds of knitted garments. In Auckland the shopping district is Queen Street and the neighborhood close to the principal hotels. Good shops include The Disabled Servicemen’s Shop (58 Queen Street) and Smith & Caughey Ltd. (246 Queen Street).
SPORTS
The national sport—and passion—is rugby, and matches can be seen in the main cities. But New Zealand also offers splendid tennis, soccer and cricket. Clubs welcome visitors as temporary members—the National Tourist Board will give details. Golf is played on glorious courses in both islands—there are 325 registered clubs which make visitors welcome. It is usual to take a letter of introduction from one’s home secretary. The beaches offer swimming, surfing and skin-diving from October to April, and there is yachting in many harbors. The Regatta held in Auckland on Anniversary Day is one of the biggest in the world. Deep-sea fishing off 300 miles of North Island beaches will take the sportsman less than an hour to spectacular fighting fish—marlin, shark, tuna—from January to April. Freshwater fishing in lakes and fast-running rivers is exciting and rewarding. Hunting for many species of deer is unrestricted throughout the year. The terrain is often rough and a guide is essential, costing about NZ$45 and up a day. The game-bird shooting season opens the first Saturday in May. Firearms must be registered. The Hunting & Fishing Officer, Tourist & Publicity Department, PO Box 527, Rotorua, will give details.
For the less sporting there is helicopter hunting—New Zealand is the only country in the world that allows this controversial activity. Hiking