AUSTRALIA
unguarded beaches, and don’t think you can explore the vast, largely uninhabited, desert interior by yourself.
TRANSPORTATION
The vast distances make air by far the most convenient method of travel. There is a comprehensive, reasonably priced network of domestic lines run by Ansett and TAA. Other means of getting about include road, rail, and sea. Train journeys are an interesting, if slow, way to see the country: Sydney to Perth, for example, takes three nights, and in the Nullarbor Plain there’s a 300-mile stretch of dead straight track. Cars can easily be rented from Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car representatives (see regional listings for addresses) but many roads in the outback country are unpaved tracks with little to see for hundreds of miles. The Ansett Pioneer Express bus service has a plan “Aussie Pass”, whereby travelers can visit most areas of interest in the continent within 35 days, at a cost of A$225.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Australians are great meat-eaters. Big steaks and legs of lamb are cheap and good. Seafood, too, is plentiful and includes varieties you won’t have met elsewhere—such as the fighting barramundi, the mud crabs of Queensland, and the rock oysters of Sydney. And the fruit is juicy and abundant. There are few Australian national dishes, however—apart, perhaps, from kangaroo-tail soup; traditional cooking is simple. For sophisticated cuisine you will rely on the skills of the “New Australians”—recent immigrants from Italy, France, and Asia. Even so, your most memorable meal may be a steak barbecued on the back of a shovel over a mulga fire, washed down with billy tea. Mealtimes are early—12 onwards for lunch, 6-9 for dinner. But then shop hours and working hours are also early. Those on a budget should take full advantage of the fashion for smorgasbord and pizza, or the more traditional counter lunch at a hotel bar.
DRINKING TIPS
Bars—often called hotels or Pubs—are open from 6am-10pm, and the beer is excellent. Australians are fierce in defense of their favorite brand, whether Swan Lager, Victoria Bitter, or Foster’s. You drink it in 15-ounce glasses known as schooners or in 10-ounce glasses called midis, and it’s stronger than US or British beer. Local wine, too, is very good indeed; no need to pay for expensive imports. Average cost of a Scotch is 70<P, of wine about A$1.80 a liter.
SHOPPING
The bargains come from the soil opals and gems of great rarity and beauty can be bought from jewelers in all big cities. A discount of about 20%, equivalent to reduction in sales tax, is available to tourists who can produce their passport and airline tickets. All Australian opals and gems