NEW ZEALAND
TRANSPORTATION
The total length of New Zealand is 1,000 miles, and there are 57,300 miles of roads, 3,220 miles of railroads, and 7,750 miles of regular internal air routes. There is a local bus service in cities and scheduled bus services throughout the country linking with good rail services, providing a reliable and efficient transportation network. Inter-Island Steamers connect the North and South Island, sailing from Wellington to Picton. Air New Zealand links 25 of the principal cities of both islands and there are buses provided for passengers to and from airports and city terminals at NZ$1 to 3. Mount Cook Airways has scheduled services and is useful for reaching remote spots.
Taxis are readily available and can be found at stands or called for by phone. They have meters, and rates per mile are approximately NZ32<P. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car is at 154 Victoria Street West, Auckland (tel: 34-924); 44-46 Lichfield Street, Christchurch (tel: 34-924); and 76-78 Courtenay Place, Wellington (tel: 843-809). Prices are from NZ$21.25 per day. Roads are good, except in remote areas. Traffic drives on the left.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
New Zealanders prefer plain and wholesome food. In fact, it consists of first-class ingredients simply cooked, and, as so much meat and dairy produce comes from New Zealand farms, it is fresh and excellent. The lamb is outstanding and eaten in large quantities, but beef and pork are also very good. New Zealand is one of the world’s largest dairy producers, so eggs, cheese, butter, and cream are splendid. The waters around New Zealand provide some exotic specialties, including crayfish (rock lobster), whitebait, paua (abalone), scallops, and oysters fresh from the sea. Some restaurants serve wild game specialties such as venison and hare. The Maoris eat mutton-bird, the young of the sooty shearwater seagull. Visitors may try it, but it is an acquired taste.
New Zealand only recently moved into the luxury restaurant trade, so standards of international cuisine vary, and few restaurants of quality exist outside the main cities. The restaurants of the principal hotels are usually good and reliable. There are some restaurants in Auckland, mostly in the downtown Queen Street, Albert Street, Ford Street area. They are the Rangitoto Room (South Pacific Hotel), Four Canoes (White Heron Lodge), La Roheme (42 Wellesley Street East—tel: 360-412), and Fisherman’s Wharf (Northcote Point—tel: 483-955). Bars often provide simple cold food cheaply.
DRINKING TIPS
New Zealanders are beer drinkers, and the local beer is good and inexpensive. Wines are produced locally and are served with meals in hotels and restaurants. Pleasant white and red table wines cost from NZ$6 a bottle. Imported wines are usually available. Most hotel bars are open from llam-lOpm. Bottles can be bought at bars, or at package stores, up to 10pm except Sunday. Only those over 20 are allowed in bars, and women are not always welcome, but notices usually show where this