AUSTRALIA
Street, Darlinghurst—tel: 317905). For budget food, go to one of the branches of Cahills.
ENTERTAINMENT
Theaters are of top international quality here—lively and experimental, too. Of the dozen-and-a-half shows likely to be on, check at least the Independent, the Ensemble, and lunchtime at the AMP. The Australian National Ballet at the Elizabeth is well worth catching, and so is the opera (several of the world’s greatest singers are Australian). The Town Hall features first-class music by international artists. Sydney’s Opera House is certainly something to write home about. For nightlife take a quick cab to Kings Cross and it’s all around you—food plus music, and floor show plus food. Some names are Polaris, Jason’s Hofbrauhaus, Tabou. ClasSy places can be found in the big hotels, such as the Silver Spade (Chevron Hotel) and the Premier Room (at the Crest). Hunter’s Lodge at double Bay is well spoken of, as is The Coachmen (763 Bourke Street, Redfern) and Fisherman’s Lodge at Watson’s Bay. At Les Girls you can eat and enjoy an all-male revue. It may be worth an excursion to Neutral Bay to the Music Hall for old-time food, drink, and melodrama.
SHOPPING
Three places where you can buy genuine aboriginal work and art at the right price are Church Missionary Society Art Center (400 Kent Street), Australian Board of Missions (417B Kent Street), and the Paulian Association (175 Elizabeth Street). All the profits go back to the men who make the goods. For opals and gemstones try Opal Skymine (6th Level, Australia Square), where there is a replica of a mine and the largest valuable opal in the world; Australian Opal Galleries (28 Gilmore Road); and the Opal Center (4th floor, ASL House). Otherwise try Centrepoint, 200 specialty shops in one building in the center of Sydney, or any of the shops or arcades around Elizabeth, Pitt, Castlereagh, and George Streets. And further out, there are shopping centers such as fashionable Double Bay. On Fridays, go to Paddy’s Market in the Haymarket and see what young Australian artists are doing. Several of the best galleries are in the pictursque Paddington area—such as Bonython, Berry Stern, and Realms. Other picture galleries are the Strawberry Hill and Prouds.
SPORTS
Try swimming and surfing from any of over two dozen magnificent beaches (Manly, Bondi, Palm Beach, Coogee, and Cronulla for example). This can be as exciting to watch as to take part in—also true of sailing in the harbor and around the Heads (the approaches to the Pacific Ocean). For information call the Royal Sydney Yacht Club (tel: 927171). For deep-sea fishing the number to call is 371237. Freshwater fishermen will find some of the best trout fishing in the world up in the Snowy Mountains at Lake Eucumbene. Golfers have no lack of excellent courses, but may need an introduction to use them.
Depending on the season, there will be sporting events somewhere