AUSTRALIA
Gardens; the Shrine of Remembrance, Melbourne’s war memorial, is close by.
If you head east up Collins Street out of the city, you will come to the grand-looking Government buildings and theTreasury Gardens. Just the other side of these are the Fitzroy Gardens; here you will find Captain Cook’s Cottage, specially shipped out from Yorkshire. You’ll also find the Fairy Tree, an imaginatively carved tree. Drive out through the suburbs and up into the Dandenongs. These hills abound with rich green undergrowth and beautiful places to walk and picnic. For a glorious view of the city drive up to Mount Dandenong and have a meal at the restaurant as you admire the view. There are innumerable little villages through the hills, such as Fern Tree Gully, Olinda, Sassafras, Belgrave, and Monbulk, all set in lovely forest and mountain to make a charming day’s tour. There are a number of day tours you can take from Melbourne out into Victoria, which is generally green and the most English part of the Australian mainland, except for the characteristic gum trees, the same variety that was transplanted to California to make railroad ties. Go up to Ballarat and Bendigo, both the center of the gold rush days of the 1850s and now two charming old provincial towns. Bendigo is currently popular for its roughhewn pottery and Australian antiques. For a close look at the unique Australian wildlife—kangaroos, wombats, koalas, and others—drive 39 miles from Melbourne to the great Sir Colin Mackenzie Wildlife Sanctuary at Healesville. South of Melbourne you can take long drives along the coast, down to lovely Mount Eliza and Arthur’s Seat. At Arthur’s Seat, there is a chairlift to the peak and you have a view over Port Phillip Bay. The restaurant at the Seat serves good meals. There are numerous attractive seaside resorts on the other side of Melbourne— Torquay, Anglesea, and Lome. Off the coast is Cowes (Phillip Island), with a seal colony, muttonbirds, and, and exciting reminder that Antarctica is not that far off, lots of fairy penguins. If you are in Melbourne during the winter, organize a skiing trip up to the Australian Alps in South-eastern New South Wales and Eastern Victoria. The popular centers near Melbourne are Mount Buller and Falls Creek.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION
Pan Am: 233 Collins Street—tel: 654 4788; Australian Tourist Commission, 414 St Kilda Road, Melbourne—tel: 267 1233; Victorian Government Tourist Bureau, 272 Collins Street—tel: 630202.
CANBERRA
Population 226,950. The age-old rivalry between Melbourne and Sydney made it entirely appropriate to establish a separate capital. Canberra is one of the world’s few fully planned cities. It was designed and landscaped by the American, Walter Burley Griffin, purely for the functions fo government. Canberra is the seat of the federal government and the center of diplomatic life in Australia. Cars can be rented from Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car at 17 Lonsdale Street (tel: 496211)