NEW ZEALAND
200), and Bacchus (8 Courtenay Place—tel: 846-592).
The Central Route, from Auckland to Wellington via Rotorua, passes through the pleasant town of Hamilton on the Waikata River, then reaches the extraordinary Rotorua, center of the thermal area. Here the most spectacular phenomena in the world can be seen—geysers, boiling mud, hot pools, hot springs, spouts of gushing steam. The peculiarities of the area must have sounded for years like incredible travelers’ tales—like Lake Rotorua, where the waters are icy but the sandy shores too warm for bare feet to walk on. Rotorua is also the center of Maori life and culture, with a model village, displays of carving and concerts of Maori music and singing. Bus trips make these fabulous sights easily accessible from Rotorua, and there are a great many to choose from, organized by the Tourist Board.
The East Coast Route skirts the Bay of Plenty, with Tauranga, a paradise for deep sea fishermen, and the golden sands for swimming and surfing at Ohope Beach. Try the Sunseeker motel (23 West End, Ohope Beach).
The West Coast Route passes, about 130 miles from Auckland, the tiny village of Waitomo, honeycombed with caves with limestone stalagmites and stalactites twisted in amazing, distorted shapes. (You might stay at the Waitomo Hotel, which is inexpensive.) The high spot of a visit to the caves is a boat trip to Glow Worm Grotto, lit by an unearthly blue-green radiance given off by tens of thousands of insect larvae covering the roof and walls. Southward the road reaches Egmont National Park, circling an extinct volcano—Mount Egmont—as harmonious and symmetrical against the sky as Japan’s Fujiyama. There’s the Dawson Falls Tourist Lodge, PO Box 29, Kaponga, Mount Egmont (from US$22 double). New Plymouth, the major town in the district, stages a nine-day Festival of Pines every February, combining art, music, and sport. The Westown Motor Hotel (Maratahu Street, New Plymouth) has double rooms from US$30. Wanganui, 50 miles on, has a unique service for visitors—dial 8888 and a voluntary guide will show you around—and you can stay at the Vacation Hotel, 379 Victoria Avenue (from US$30 double).
The South Island—characterized by fjords and inlets: Christchurch is the capital of the South Island, “the most English town outside England.” Its heart is the 19th century Gothic Cathedral in Cathedral Square, and through the town flows a river called the Avon, crossed by 37 stone bridges. There is, in fact, the atmosphere of an English Market or cathedral town.
South of Mount Cook is Queenstown on Lake Wakatipu, a resort and center for some scenic excursions, and Lake Te Anau, New Zealand’s second largest lake. The scenery and hunting are superb, and there are good accommodations, a glow-worm cave, and year-round swimming.
Some 82 miles north of Christchurch is Hanmer Springs, a center for skiing, riding, fishing, golf, and year-round swimming—there are thermal springs. The west coast of the South Island reveals dramatically contrasting scenes with subtropical forests and great glaciers—the twin glaciers Franz Josef and Fox flow through land where orchids and the