OTanana
ORubjL
O McGrathi
O Anchorage
Yakutat
Valdez
Cordovi
^Juneau
^ Petersburg ^ a Wrangell g

RESERVES CONTINUOUSLY CLOSED TO THE TAKING OF ALL GAME ANIMALS AND BIRDS:
•	Posted national forest.	• Rainbow area.
•	Eklutna Lake (nr. Anchorage). « Highway Reserve—The area
• Harding Lake, Birch Lake areas (near Fairbanks).
within 100' of the centerline of all public highways.
RESERVES CONTINUOUSLY CLOSED TO THE TAKING OF CERTAIN GAME ANIMALS:
i)-
Anan Creek (In Unit Closed on black bear.
•	Mitkof Island — Closed on game animals, game birds, and beaver.
•	Highway — A strip one-quarter mile wide on each side of all public highways in Southeastern Alaska and a strip one-half mile wide on each side of all public highways on the Kenai Peninsula. (Closed on all big game animals.)
•	Sullivan Islands-Taiya area— Closed on deer.
•	Steese Highway—Closed on caribou.
•	Cooper Landing area (Kenai Peninsula) — Closed on goat and sheep.
•	Sheep Mountain—Closed on goat and sheep.
•	Eagle River (near Anchorage) —Closed on goat and sheep.
•	Tok River—A strip 1 mile wide on each side of Slana-Tok Highway between mileposts 80 and 100. Closed on sheep.
•	Thayer Mountain (On Admiralty Island) — Closed on brown and grizzly bear.
•	Pack Creek (On Admiralty Island) — Closed on brown and grizzly bear.
•	McNeil River (In Kamishak Bay — Cook Inlet) — Closed on brown and grizzly bear.
•	Mount Hayes-Blair Lakes Refuge— Closed on all game animals except black bear, hare and rabbit.
•	Denali — Closed on all big game animals.
BIRD AND WILDLIFE REFUGES IN ALASKA:
Aleutian Islands.
Bering Sea.
Bogoslof.
Chamisso Island. Forrester Island.
Semidi Islands Wildlife Refuge.
Hazen Bay.
Hazy Islands.
Kenai National Moose Range. Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge.
Nunivak Island.
The Pribilof Islands.
St. Lazaria.
Tuxedni.
LICENSE AND GUIDE INFORMATION:
Nonresident Licenses —
General hunting, trapping, game fishing...............$50.00
Hunting and game fishing, not including big game hunting .	$10.00
Game Fishing..........................................$ 2.50
Obtain license information by addressing Alaska Game Commission, Juneau, Alaska.
Guides —
Contact guides for wages —varies as to areas.
Government regulations do not permit nonresidents to hunt big game without the services of a licensed guide. A list of the currently licensed guides may be obtained by writing the Alaska Game Commission, Juneau, Alaska, who with the Game Guide Associations provided invaluable assistance in the preparation of this folder.
Ft.^ukon
O Fairbanks

	fir	
\	17	
		
The symbols shown on map indicate areas recommended by experienced game guides as the most desirable hunting and fishing locations. It has not been attempted to show on this map the population densities of specific game.
Bear; black, with color variations
Bear; large brown and grizzly
Bear; polar
Moose
^Ç7 Sheep; mountain
Caribou
Deer
Goat; mountain
Salmon
'v'	Trout and	Grayling
Grouse, Ptarmigan L	and migratory
jÀ	waterfowl	through-
out territory
1-26	Wild Life
Management Units (see map)
NOTE: Many of the official regulations regarding game and fur animals are based on the Wild Life Management Units outlined on this map. They are included here for your convenience.
O Whitehorse
Q
Seward
■;
Kodiak O
W&Â
mmwm;