Say hello toa brand
new world.
Say hello to Pan Airis
Woridport.
Hello to a brand new
world.. .Pan Am now can offer
you a single airline convenience. Fly to and from 25 U.S. destinations and 44 foreign cities with one ticket, one check-in, on one airline. Pan Am’s Woridport is now serving both international and domestic travelers. This little brochure was designed to make it easy for you to find your way around.. .when you arrive...when you change planes ...and when you leave the terminal.
Most importantly, it contains a detailed map of the principal passenger areas in the Woridport so you can see exactly where you are—and where you’re going.
But if you ever feel at all confused, just ask any of the Pan Am Passenger Services representative on duty throughout the terminal. You’ll recognize them easily from their distinctive uniforms.
They’re here to assist you in any way they can.
First, a litde general
information.. . Pan Am’s Woridport is totally self-sufficient for both domestic and foreign travel.
Duty-Free Shops. The Woridport contains a variety of Duty-Free Shops, where departing international passengers may make highly advantageous purchases of cigars, cigarettes, wines, liquors, perfumes, and other gift items—all at remarkable savings. To do so, you must show your international boarding pass at the shop’s checkout counter; your purchases will be delivered directly to your flight.
Handicapped passengers will find that the Woridport is equipped with special ramps and other facilities especially designed to make it easy for people in wheelchairs, on crutches, or who are otherwise hampered in their movements.
Please ask any Pan Am Passenger Services representative for whatever help you may need to negotiate the terminal in the fastest, most comfortable way.
East Concourse
International Check-In Counter Lobby
Please use pictures to help guide you through Pan Am’s Woridport.
East Roadway Departure
Through Security Gates 9-16
East Elevators to Arrivals Level 1
Check-In Counter
(Follow Black Guidelines)
LEVEL 3

Coming and going.. .Finding
V^UIiLLLlg dllLl gUlllg.. .rinding your way around the Woridport (it can actually handle a bigger volume of air traffic than can many municipal airports throughout the world!) is remarkably simple. A few general guidelines may help you...
Information, please...Throughout the Woridport, you will find TV screens offering up-to-the-minute information about arriving and departing flights—times, gates, baggage claim areas and special information regarding any delays or changes in service. Please watch these information centers for help in determining where to go, and when.
Transferring from one INTERNATIONAL flight to another INTERNATIONAL flight:
Passengers in transit between Pan Am international flights don’t ordinarily have to clear U.S. Customs, so long as they don’t wish to leave the terminal during the transit time. Your baggage will be transferred automatically to your onward connecting flight, and there’s a special lounge for you to relax in while you wait for boarding instructions.
Elevators to Rooftop Padting
South Concourse Lobby
TO
ROOFTOP
PARKING
GATE
Curbside check-in is available for domestic departures.
Elevators to Rooftop Parking
Food and Beverages...
There are restaurants and snack bars located at designated areas in the terminal.
		 pcs 1			
5»^			■ ■	
				
DEPARTURES (WEST) DOMESTIC LEVEL 3
(Follow Blue Guidelines)
North Concourse Lobby
West Concourse
Domestic Check-In Counter
Lobby
West Concourse Passenger Entrance
Through Security Gates 4-7
East Departure Roadway West Elevators West Departure Roadway to Arrivals Level 1.
Designed by Martin Levites Assocs., Ltd.
Copy Pan American World Airlines, Inc. Oct. 1980