modations. This tour takes about 5 days. But you can arrange to stay longer at any place you particularly like.
Another place of interest to go from Tokyo is Nikko, about 90 miles north of the capital. This is a mountain resort famous for its scenery and its 300-year-old Toshogu Shrine. The entire area is a national park. Just a few miles from Nikko at Lake Chuzenji are the Kegon Waterfalls. Here is the best trout fishing in Japan. There are good bathing and swimming, too. You will see the red-lacquered, crescent-shaped sacred bridge, which crosses the Daiya River. Here there is a five-storied pagoda considered to be the finest in Japan. The carvings of the world famous “Three Monkeys” are on the Sacred Stable beyond the Niomon Gate here. See also the Yomeimon Gate. The Nikko-Kanaya Hotel has a swimming pool and surprisingly enough, a skating rink.
You may go to Kobe, on the Inland Sea, 20 miles West of UsaH, a city which is backed by the Rokko Mountain Range. This city was in ruins after the war but is rapidly being reN It. Within half an hour of Kobe are the picturesque Nunobiki W r'.-rfalls. You may drive to the summit of Mt. Rokko ack of the cay and play golf or, an 18-hole golf course at the very L >.
Take a train to Miyajima (Shi, e Island), an : «relient summer resort 12 miles southwest of Hirosh, .a, noted for h nerry blossoms and for its shrine built or supports unning into u; sea. The Main Shrine is connected with s 'diarie by gffi'c v.'.ch stretch over the sea so that at high t;< 'e $Mne. seen 1 to oe ado?,. Sacred dances are performed here I ..»nrin«- maiden?, iwiiso Inn o-c Kame-fuku Inn are the places L, . ¡y /ou may, if you like '> go to Hiroshima, the atom-bombed ct there are girder; available x take you on a conducted sightsee'” - tour.
You ma; Iso visit Nagov„, about 75 miles nst of Kyoto, v h its ruins of an an-tent castle and a gomen doiphi; vrmountine the Jon-jon. Here is Atsuia Jingu, the secant} larges' mine in Japan This is the center of Japanese porcelain-making, and /-Tbake chinaware factory may be visited. This city is noted for./ * 'Gain an" v-i sonné wares. The Hotel New Nagoy. and N tryà Kank.o F we-
the two most modern hotels. Japan	v./ u -,ra ohruie. ..-.e	.4- o
is an hour and a half away by elect	rain. ( ilit,. aboffi fif:	Ti t OS
away by electric train, is famous for ho	ormo’Tu- ling or. >	■ .over
Nagara. At Gifu there is the Western-s	yie Naan wçv.vrt? F-rU'l	. i the
very banks of the river, besides many	r- •h-ar.sn jr-ns. Th-r	:>: ices
mentioned above are open to tout,,.-.	■ rise from 5 j :	"ayt.
S: URC / ™ FURTHER INT	•■'¡Â CiON	ew	V G ' l
the -v>v 1 ~>uris. cocUm.-is at 45 K	v .cefeller Plaza, in San	Fran-
cisco	Man • ieet, «. d in Honolulu at 109 Kaiulani Ave.,
riono. i5. /he j an Tr ¿«el Bureau nas offices in New York, ¿.os mgeles and the (. '	k'ig., Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
veil as in mar ' on. ■ -span;	r A'x Tokyo office of Pacta is in the 'r-mlshi 1	u..aing. Marunouchi, Cmyoda-ku.
( Tel. 211-244L , .toss fr< , mal Railroad Station.