all the women’s roles are played by men. You can see Kabuki at the Kabuki Theater. An all-puppet theater, the Bunrakuza, is at Osaka. In season the Cherry Dance presentations at the theaters are worth seeing. There is modern Japanese theater, too; revues and light opera are popular and who could resist the Takarazuka Girls Troupe?
TIME... 17 hours later than United States Pacific Standard Time.
TIPPING ... 50 to 100 yen for the boy who carries your bags. The 10 per cent that restaurants and hotels add to your bill is sufficient tip. No tipping to taxi drivers.
TRANSPORTATION .. . There are modern tramways, streetcars, motor buses, and subways running through downtown Tokyo and Osaka. Suburban districts and nearby scenic spots are linked with the city by a network of high-speed electric trains. Taxis as well as cars for hire, are readily obtainable. Rates are approximately the same as those in the United States. The Japanese National Railways and Japan Air Lines operate throughout the country.
WATER .. . Generally speaking, the water of Japan is perfectly safe to drink, but visitors should use their own judgment.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tortoise shell from Nagasaki, porcelain and cloisonné from Nagoya, lacquerware from Kyoto, silk, cultured pearls, embroidered kimonos and obis, pottery, china, ceramics, Japanese prints and woodcuts, wonderful silk damasks ai . ' host of other souvenirs and things which only the Japanese can make. Tourists in possession of a “Record of rNsh in and and Pure! -“'of Commodities Tax Exempt for Exnr form, • /hich may be -b ained on entry to Japan, may buy the fo. "•.■mg a-'icles free or ta at shops designated by the local revenue offices, . earls and	decoi T.'d with
pearls; articles made of precious meml or metals; ivory a.id	'sonné
ware; furs; cameras, including •paru, or accessories; binocu , a..u monocular telescopes, including tue carrying cases; articles u.seu >r room decoration; .. ; hters ai?d other sme rung articles provided they are made of ur tai or lacquer work; ceramic ware; personal ornaments made of rumai or lacquer V' irk; woodblock prints; dolls.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Let th'- season of the year determine this. Tokyo is roughly like Washington. C.C. Japan as a whole. js like the Middle West. In winter you’ll nc ; furs, nun will need nvsrooaN. 7n spring, lighter weight clothes a”., in surnine , cottons, " silks, sports clothes. Be sure to take a ■ amcoat. You won’t new .effing clothes unless vou are beine entertained by diolorr.^tic ¿ocieiy.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING...............
BTolyp. ' . . Everything is so different, so novel, that just going out into the sue « of Tokyo is a sightseeing tour in itself. You will want to see the Imperial Pala u even though the inner enclosuie is not open to the public WaD; or drive through Hibiya Park opposite the Imperial Hotel where the azaleas bloom in May and the chrysanthemums in November. Tn Shiba Pmk is the famous Zojo-ji Temple and 1,092 foot Tokyo Tower with television antenna and observation decks. The Palace Gardens, just a short distance from the temple, are quite lovely. Ueno Park, noted for its cherry blossoms, contains the