National Museum, the Zoological Gardens, the Metropolitan Art Gallery, the Imperial Library and a monument to General Grant, of all people. You will want to go shopping on Ginza Street, the main shopping thoroughfare. Sightseeing buses with English-speaking guides run twice daily and take you through the most fascinating and exciting parts of this metropolis.
Side Trips . .. There are packaged tours which cover the parts of Japan which are most interesting to foreign tourists. Starting at Tokyo you drive to Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park and Atami Hot Springs Resort. You pass through Kamakura, which is the site of the shrine of the Great Buddha, or Daibutsu. You may climb inside the Buddha to shoulder level. A short distance from the Buddha is Hachiman Shrine, one of the oldest temples in Japan, located in a grove of cherry trees If you are touring you will proceed to Hakone Mountains to the Fi'Hya Hotel, one of Japan’s most elegant hotels at Miyanoshita, high in .he mountains, or to the Hakone Hotel on the shores of Lake Ha-ko le, from there cn A Atami over the Ten Province Pass, from which you will get a wr; o'mAil view of Mt. Fujiyama. The Atami Hotel is good here.
The third dav o' the tour tal you by train to Kyoto, known as the “classic” ch- !o~ Japan. The <bulous shrines and temples, “Teapot Lane,” the ’ any bazaars a d shops are famous. The Miyako Hotel overlook- he oin from a hill. Treated squarely ii the v. :y’s shopping dis* of the old Imperial Pair ae and tL HA
elabora	? duddhis’
Park !	- 'p-jOUS
Once a	v tar. this
-Tint..-?-	dressed
pay h n	sage there.
is considered the c	
in, whose, treasure	
too. are	wonder*-.
d'■■■■.	npie v-r.
tu,.	se world,
ji	•« yuji Ten
O V . * .f	■ i rsard v
touns .	•• u rill
wan lo-	c-ovst -he
in ? 6.8 ,«	v. The
t - -	' ' y.<
temples in
rvloto shrir.
Kyoto Station Hotel is lo-You will visit the grounds r'ngan-ji, one of the most ;	■>. Heian Shrine in Okazaki
ec <n ie midst of formal gardens, ■s tne site of festb 'cls, nd endless processions of in ostume. depict” "arious perioH« in history O” he fifth day, you .eave Kyoto fo, lara, which ••"di . ;>jl Japanese art and culture. Here is the Shoso-s/e ’-«played very occasionally in Tokyo. Here, *■ ."?> vpies of early Japanese a -cbixecture, the Toll of the Great Buddha, largest wooden struc-bo at' the ;reat Buddha, which is over 53 feet , r. j A ' ' r.D. containing many art treasures a s oH. anr . ny other unusual sights attract the •Lira pa ., where tame deer roam at will, and no ¡Won corridors of the Kasuga Shrine, founded .Yi	• . pbee here.
ou go y . ic train to Osaka, site of the annual Music i . Arts Festival, wh—'	t-.«	'«.hi,
the city -, shopping and ami; „nent cenfi . vl.b •* rolorf *’ '-„¿»..»r* will enchant you. Osaka Cart1? with walls fori., of gigu ieccs of granite, ar.d tiny bridges spannmg -he at, is . ¡azinc. Th hiten Temple and the Temiru .	. i>_ b anu you’ll find a
u.	’>e Bunrakuza, devoted •	o pup	she -s. The Nen
Osaka Hotel, International Fair ...	3 the	* . Grand Hote<
(double room v/ith bath 510 and p ■	me Western-style accom-