to its young girls. In Japan it is a high art, called lkebana. There are special ikebana classes for foreigners.
FOOD. . . Rice, as everyone knows, is the staple food. The Japanese cook this in a different manner than is generally done in the West, resulting in a much more glutinous, fragrant dish. Daintiness is the characteristic of a truly Japanese meal. Japanese cooks take great pride in having the table and the food look appetizing and attractive There are many excellent Western-style restaurants, and Japanese beef is considered among the best to be found anywhere. The main native dishes to try are sukiyaki, which is a sort of beef stew cooked at the table; tempura, which is fresh sea food and vegetables deep-fried; and chawarmiushi, which is chicken, pork and beef steamed with egg custard in a bowl. Fresh raw fish, broiled mushrooms, dried seaweed, bean curd are other native foods which are worth trying. Green tea is almost the national drink. Kabayaki, or broiled eels, is considered a great delicacy.
GAMBLING... There is horse racing (under Government control) from March to July and August to December. Tokyo’s race track is the Fuchu race course in the suburbs. The Yodo race course at Kyoto is the next largest in the country. Bicycle racing, also under Government control, is a year-round attraction.
LANGUAGE. . . Generally speaking, tourists will find that they will have no language difficulty in traveling throughout Japan.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING. . . Good. Readily available and of good quality. Service is fast; where laundry i concerned, it is possible to get overnight service; dry cleaning takes about two days.
LIQUOR. . . Sake, a rice wine, is he national drink. Japanese beer is generally recognized to be as go d as any other beer produced. Other spirits are readily obtainable at a11 the leading hotels \ -s and restaurants. Six quarts of liquor may bt orought into Japan.
MEDICAL FACILITIES .. . There are several hospitals in Tokyc as well as fully qualified American and British doctors.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Them are mot’on picture theaters which show American and European f ns besides the native productions, which run over 250 a year. The Yuraku-ra Hibiya Gekijo, Tokyo Gekijo, Marunouchi-Nlkkatsu, Pi 'adilly Theater are some of the important theaters in Tokyo sho ,ng pictures with original acks. The Imperial Theater shows Cinerama .. . .s.
I MUSIC . . . The Japanese are vr mi ch .1 '» c m an .js of “Western” music. Five symphony orchestras, for.r of them ir ^okyo, hold regular subscription concerts in season. The N'jTK Symphcny Orchestra of the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation >.„ especially popular. Choral groups gi m performances of religious works from time to time; instrumental and vocal recitals are daily occurrences. Fre. uent .visits by foreign artists of international stature have enabled the Japanese to become acquainted with the biahest present standards of artistry. The Fujiwara Opera Cornpm>	c of se oral, is the pioneer Japanese
opera troupe and has appe; ...	1 me United States with its produc-
tion of Madame Butterfly. 1 opular dances and jazz bands are numerous. Indigenous Japanese mv- c. which is c nstructed on a fone scale