cigarettes are available at about 35 cents a pack. Cigars are available in limited supply. Customs allow 200 cigarettes or 50 cigars or Vi lb. of tobacco.
CLIMATE . . . The climate of Japan is similar to the Middle West in the United States, although it seldom gets either as not or as cold. However, you’ll need furs and heavy overcoats in winter and light clothes for summer. Japan is well worth a visit any time of the year, but spring and autumn are the best times.
CLUBS . . . Rotary and Lions Clubs are very active in Japan and it is possible to attend in all the main cities.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS .. . There are many different customs in Japan. Automobile traffic keeps to the left. You must take your shoes off before entering a Japanese-style hotel, private home or temple. The Japanese never use soap in the bathtub. The custom is to lather themselves thoroughly, then rinse themselves, after which they enter the tub or big open bath, and soak themselves in the hot water.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Airmail, radio-telephone and international telegraph service.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the yen. The rate of exchange is 360 yen to one United States dollar. Foreign currency is not legal tender in the stores or hotels, but can be readily exchanged at the banks for Japanese currency. No yen may be brought into or out of Japan but the v. is no limit on the amount of foreign currency that may be brought in Only bank notes amounting to $50 or more must be declared on arrival. A maxiu um amount of yen equivalent to U.S. $100 may be converted back in. foreign currency, provided it can be shown that the yen was ..rquired through proper channels. These cone :ns are subject to cha.-ge, so check with your travel agent or the Rau American office.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATE^CITIZEN.S .. . Passport and except for visits 9f less than 72 hours, a risa. Va>u >ation certificate for smallpox for return to the United States. Choi, a and typhus vaccination required of visitors from infected local ar is. Chinese-type articles are either pro tibited or require a Certificate of Origin for entry into the United Stat. ' ;..»sui; the • rarest U.S. Consul for latest requirements. Regulate u; ¿c >i ~ lj, s* chef' with Pan American in advance.
Dt C-STOltiV,,. . Aside from many Japanese drug stores, there are ffv fully stocked American Pharmacy and the Rexall Drug Co., both located in To.,yo, where you can obtain American products.
. ELECTRIC CURRENT... 100 volts, a.c., in local hotels and homes. There is no need to use special transformer oiugs.
■FAUNA'.. . Boar, deer, pheasant, quad, snipe, wild geese.
FLORA . . . Cherry and p'urr v - "oms tea, persimmons, loquat, figs, and thousands of flowers irw’	the lotus, wisteria, azalea,
camellia, chrysanthemum (which f- nr.s the crest for the Imperial House), lapan is the land of flowers, and newer arrangement is taught