different from that of Occidental music, may seem enigmatic to the average Westerner, but the skill of the instrumental performers may still be appreciated.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS.. . There are several interesting cafés and bars and many excellent night clubs. Some of the large hotels have dance floors and bands. Ochaya, or tea houses, cater to hundreds of guests and the geisha, or professional entertainer, dances for the guests in what really amounts to a ritual dance.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . Both black-and-white and color film are manufactured locally, while American brands may be obtained at leading stores. Prices for Japanese films are roughly equivalent to the film prices in America, but imported film may cost 30 to 40 per cent more. Black-and-white film processing service is available almost anywhere, many shops offering 24-hour service. The puzzling DPE sign hung out on many shops signifies that developing, printing and enlarging is done there.
RELIGION. . . There are about 24 Christian denominations in Japan, including Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist, Episcopal and Congregational churches. The three major religions are Buddhism, Shintoism and Christianity.
RESTAURANTS. . . All major hotels have restaurants that serve international foe •. otsides these, the following are among the best in Tokyo: the Tokyr Kaikan Prunier for seafood, the Suehiro Steak House, Grill P dniafov steaks . nd chore Hana-cho, Sukiya-ro for sukiyaki dinneryolen-ichi for tempura shes, Sun-ya for Chinese food. Prices var^avidCy, but inu^enersi - nge from about $3 to $5.
SH©PSP ANSsl'jiiJ&RES ... Jxpan. i9r*<a shopper’s paradise. Ginza Street Tokyo is the main shopping center. Principal department store- Cú: Mikimoto Pearl Siore; Mitsukoshi, Matsuzakaya, Shiroky -t. »tsd Takashimaya There- arfe, of course, many small shops. A noted one is the Iwafd Glassware sroo in the Sv miuku district (hand-painted glassware) It is the only on.’ of i„s- kind.«? Japan.
SPECTATOR' SPORTS . . Sum- , Japanese wrestling, judo exhibits, baseball (-tremendon-ty popular -games are played at the stadium at Meiji Shrime grounds and tht" ivorekuen Stadium), horse racing, sv/n«hrf?dgovjcets, ootoa;i, tennis- ¿atches and archery. There are numerhig'i irsial-meetings'and tom «aments.
• SVOitfS" .. Ttféi-f are golf1.’'tennis, yachting, swimming, skiing, hu. .tig/skátiñg,’ fishing and bowling in various parts of the country.
I HEATERS.. Japan’s native theatrical art is centuries old. The theater in Japan is divided into Noh, Kabuki and puppet drama. The Noh, originally a religious dance in the fourteenth cewiit /, developed into a highly stylized dramatic form dealing with historical and Buddhist subjects. It is the classical drama of ffapam The actors wear masks and elaborate costumes as they perform one of the 242 Noh plays which survive. There are six -hhools of Noh actors in Japan. The Kabuki—unlike the Noh, which was for the aristocracy—was for the people. Kabuki plays are similar to European dramas except that dialogue is accompanied by musical instruments or an orchestra, and