TRES GAI
Head for the Arc on your .stroll down the Champs Elysccs.
,n all the world there is no city like Paris. You’ll find her alluring, exciting, always surprising. You’ll do the town with a spring in your stride and a song in your heart. Wine and dine in the gourmet style that only French chefs and vintage wines make possible. Dance to le jazz hot or gypsy strings. Make the rounds from the can-can shows and raucous Place Pigalle to the plushier clubs, with their buckets of champagne.
You’ll find Paris and her women as due as ever, her cabs more quaint, her postered kiosks even more colorful. From springtime on, of course, you’ll be outdoors with the rest of Paris . . . at sidewalk cafes, or out along the boulevards among the flowers and fountains. With the petit bourgeois at Jardin des Tuileries, or young lovers of the Left Bank at the famed Gardens of Luxembourg.
You’ll browse among the bookstalls and flower stands in the shadow of Notre Dame . . . shop from the Flea Market to the fashionable stores and the swank salons of world-famed coutouriers. You’ll roam the web of streets of the Latin Quarter and Montparnasse and be fascinated by the outdoor art exhibits. Relive “La Boheme” among the students and legends of the Sorbonne . . . walking up Boul’ Mich ... or seated in the tiny cafe's with artists and writers known round the world. Do Montmartre, the fabled Bohemian section, riding the cable railway or climbing the steps and winding streets to the beautiful church of Sacre-Coeur.
See Les Invalides with its tomb of Napoleon, Church of the Madeleine, the Pantheon, and, of course, the Mona Lisa and countless other objets d’art in the Louvre. Stroll
You’!! long remember Montmartre, her artists winding streets and snounvhitc Sacre-Coeur.
the Champs-Elysees to the Arc de Triomphe and from the Eiffel Tower count the 31 bridges crisscrossing the Seine. Then there’s the Opera, Ballet, the modern and classical drama and Grand Guignol’s horror plays ... all the sports, too, including the ubiquitous bicycle races. And, at least one ride out to the Bois ... to Malmaison, where Josephine lived . . . famed Versailles, Fontainebleu and St. Germain-en'Laye, with their palaces and gardens and kingly splendor predating Napoleon’s day.
The night life’s all you imagined and just a little bit more.