THE Frencli
Riviera’s WAITING
jn this playground of the world you’ll golf and swim, boat and fish ... or don skis, if you’re agile, to skim over the blue Mediterranean or down the snowy slopes of the mountains nearby. Enjoy the gayest of night life . . . concerts, festivals, pageants and opera. Mingle with the international set at sophisticated Cannes. Thrill to Nice and its Mardi Gras and scenes you’ve seen pictured so often ... the view of the Cote d’Azur, for example, as you
drive out through the hills to Monte Carlo. At the famous marbled and mirrored Casino, have your fling at baccarat and roulette. Enjoy it all summer or winter, from head' quarters matching your plans and purse . . . amid sumptu' ous surroundings like swank Cap d’Antibes or in modest hotels and small pensions at charming towns like St. Tropez, St. Raphaël or Juandes'Pins, overlooking the most beautiful beaches you’ve ever seen.
the Alps, Pyrénées, Chateau Country, too
■yyHETHER you’re seeking winter sports, mountain grandeur or new vigor and health, the French Alps are a must, with some of the best skiing and most breathtaking scenery in all Europe. Stop at lovely Lyon, the gateway, and resorts like Mégève and Chamonix nestling below majestic Mt. Blanc, highest in all Europe. Visit Mer de Glace’s river of ice . . . Le Brevent, for a spectacular view of the entire chain . . . and, of course, the famous spas like Aix-les-Bains, with its famous revolving solarium.
But there’s so much more . . . from Biarritz and Bayonne, the fashionable year-round resorts on the Bay of Biscay, to ancient Pau in the Pyrénées. Enjoy the fasci-
Relive historic yesterdays in storybook set' tings like the walled city of Carcassonne.
nating Basque games and dances and try Luchon’s ski runs and thermal baths. And certainly the Chateau country, particularly Chenonceaux, Villandry, Blois and gigantic Chambord, with its turrets and spires and 365 rooms. While in Tours, don’t miss the vineyards. Vouvray and Bordeaux are world famous for their wines; Cognac, for the brandy bearing its name.
Brittany, Normandy
AND YESTERYEARS
I
"^isit Rouen, with its museums and memories of Joan of Arc . . . the ever-popular Deauville resort . . . Omaha and Utah beachheads of the Normandy invasion . . . tradition-loving Brittany, with its quaint fishing villages and women wearing starched coifs, its colorful market days and summer-long religious festivals, and the British-favored resort, Dinard. See the Gobelin tapestries at Compiegne, site of the surrenders of two world wars. See Chartres and the famed stained glass of its Cathedral . . . visit the shrines at Lourdes and Lisieux . . . Burgundy and its lively capital Dijon . . . and, for a gastronomic novelty, enjoy the fluffy omelets as you shop at Mount St. Michel with its abbey and lone cobblestoned street jutting up out of the sea. Yes, you’ll find much to see and do in France amid constant reminders of twenty exciting centuries.
Whatever your plans for Paris and France, you’ve a wide range of Clipper Cruises to choose from. Whether you prefer conducted or independent inclusive-cost tours and regardless of the length of time available, from a few days to a year, you’ll find a pre-arranged travel plan to suit. Your Travel Agent has all the information and you’ll find his aid invaluable in arranging itineraries, suggesting places of interest, helping with travel problems. What’s more, his professional and efficient services will save you time and money. See him soon! He’ll be glad to tell you about the many attractive trips available. And you'll be surprised how much you can include and how much you can save on a Flying Clipper Cruise.	||
Pah American
World Airways
O\amomx. Enjoy the spectacular French Alps winter or summer in vigorous or relaxing fashion.
LET YOUR TRAVEL AGENT HELP YOU
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF TOURS!