
THIS FLYING BY CLIPPER
Tt’s so pleasant and relaxing . . . your Clipper trip to France. Congenial companions in Mardi Gras mood, only pleasure ahead and the world at your feet. Cabin attendants at your beck and call . . . liqueurs and liquors to your liking . . . and delicious meals by Maxim’s of Paris, more taste-tempting than ever served high in the sky. You’ll hnd all this on all Pan American’s hrst-class flights to Paris . . . and all without extra charge ... or tipping. Depending on the type of your Clipper, your cloud-soft chair will recline to cradle you by night, or you may choose an oversize berth at slight extra charge. And voxlal No matter what Clipper service you select . . . regular or extra fare, or lowest-fare-ever on the wonderful Rainbow, Pan American’s new Clipper Tourist Service . . . you’re in Paris so soon. In hours. Which means you’ll have time for a much longer stay in France and on the continent . . . and you’ll arrive refreshed, eager and gay as Paris herself.
3 GOOD REASONS FOR SEEING FRANCE NOW
1—	“THE PRESIDENT” AND “THE PRESIDENT SPECIAL"
The President is Pan Am’s fast, luxurious New York-to-Paris-and-Rome-service. Even more luxurious, is the extra-fare President Special, featuring more attendants, fewer passengers, the finest wines, liqueurs and foods, and Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette Service — super soft arm'chairs which recline and convert to full-length lounge beds. Both services feature Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers, lower deck lounges and, at slight extra charge, overlength berths — with breakfast in bed the next morning.
2—	YOUR DOLLARS BUY MORE
You’ll be pleasantly surprised to see how far your dollars go in France. The present favorable rate of exchange gives a break to your budget — the finest of accommodations, food and entertainment can be yours for no more than the second best would cost at home.
3—	“THE RAINBOW”
Pan American’s wonderful Clipper tourist service, “The Rainbow”, cuts the fare between New York and major cities in Europe, the Middle East, and India by as much as one-third. Gigantic new Super-6 Clippers,- flown by regular PA A crews, were especially designed for this service. Delicious meals aloft are included in these lowest-ever air fares.
Copyright 1953, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Clipper and Sleeperette, Trade-Marks, Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.