Coimbra, the sophistication of city life in the Crossroads of the Continent — Lisbon. And, for a complete change, relax on a tour of the quiet and lovely Douro Valley, perhaps stopping at a pousada, one of Portugal’s famed wayside inns.
C\{cuh¿c¿
How to make merry in
First — relax. Spaniards love life too much to rush it. Everybody siestas from one to three and nobody dines until after nine. See — the Museo del Prado, the fabulous rose gardens in Retiro Park, the National Palace, the bull-ring. Sample the delicious Castilian cuisine — you’ll wonder how anyone stays slim in Spain. Shop for — laces, leather bags, wines, perfumes — much for very little money.

beautiful and buoyant
Mallorca, off the Spanish coast, has been a romantic hideaway since the days of Chopin and Qeorge Sand.
I t’s the capital of Catalonia, queen of the lush Eastern Coast, and abloom with joie de vivre. Start with the heart of it, the Ramblas — a mile-long series of streets all feeding into a broad, tree-shaded promenade. Part is a flower market — a riot of color; part, a bird market — a riot of song. See — the ancient Gothic Quarter, the uninhibited Catalonian architecture, the “Spanish Town” — a little village copy of medieval Spain. Don't miss the seafood. (Best fish in the Mediterranean!)
Live in a dream ... at dream-low prices in
^y]AjOsll<rZCcu
As a jumping-off place for joy — Nice is a natural. It’s the focus of all roads — high, middle, and low — to all the interesting places on the Riviera. Besides being the largest and most metropolitan of the coast resorts, it boasts excellent hotels and the famous Promenade des Anglais. Make daily forays out to Gagnes, the Cap d’Antibes, Juan-les-Pins, Monte Carlo — you'll discover new delights each time!
you’ll find Spanish sports exciting as you join the enthusiastic crowds at the bull ring, pelota courts and race track.
J ust an hour by air from Barcelona lie the Balearic Islands — probably the one place left in the world where the bill shocks you . . . because it’s so low. You can stay in the best hotel — comparable to the finest on the continent — for incredibly little. Or you may fall so in love with life on these islands, you’ll rent a house — for even less! And Mallorca is so beautiful, you won’t believe it even after you see it! Don't miss — the Caves of the Drach, Miramar, the castle at Belver, the Mercado.
The nicest stop
on the road to Rome —
ice