Europ
center
new
verve
dò
enne
Capri's a revelation, you'll discover why it's the favorite of honeymooners and so popular with the international set.
. . . might as well confess, you’re a dyed-in-the-heart Romantic — and you might as well prepare to have a love affair with the city of your dreams. You’ll find excuses to go places just for the going . . . because gon-doliering is so endearing. By all means feed the pigeons in St. Mark’s Square, check the hour, the sun, and the moon by the famous Clock Tower, see the Palace of the Doges and the Bridge of Sighs — but no matter how much sightseeing you do, the sight you love best will always be wherever you are, because you’re in Venice!
In
CfuKetice you look—
you listen
You’ll find a fatal fascination in Florence, especially if your grand passion is art, and your favorite period the Renaissance. It’s a welcoming city — one of the most visited in Italy, in fact — with excellent hotels, memorable food. But as you might expect, its dazzling array of art treasures outshines its other charms. See — the Cathedral... it is built of colored marble ... the Church of San Lorenzo, the Palazzo Riccardi, home of the Medicis, the tombs of Machiavelli and Michelangelo.
T he most exciting capital in Western Europe these days is Rome. Post-war Italy is setting a pace in the arts and allied fields that has the whole world talking — and Rome is the fountainhead of the furor. In high fashion, Rome’s designers are making headlines that Paris would envy — and does. In furniture design, pottery, woodcraft and such, Italian artists are winning kudos, both domestic and imported. In fact, there’s a renaissance of creativity so strong you can practically feel it sweeping you off your feet. Sojourn in Rome, and you’ll have all this — and history, too. For no other city has such treasures of art and tradition so lavishly bestowed.
See — Vatican City, including St. Peter’s, the Sistine Chapel, the Vatican Museum . . . the Borghese Gallery . . . the Colosseum . . . the Pantheon . . . the Roman Baths . . . the Catacombs.
Shop for — handbags, men’s ties, Italian silks, tortoise shell, amber, and leather goods, custom-made shirts and blouses.
Sample — the food, the restaurants, the night life. You’ll love the risotto dishes burgeoning with peppers, chicken, meat, fish, onion and spices. And don’t miss the 3 P’s— pizza, pasta, and polenta. Sidewalk cafes and outdoor restaurants will spoil you for ever again dining with a roof over your head. Operas and concerts are held out under the stars.
you’ll thrill to the new Home as well as the Vatican and such ancient glories as the Colosseum and Arch of Constantine.