Barcelona
Mallorca
Athenai
Palermo
Casablanca
Tel A vii Jerusalem
Oporto
VO, \	- w tr ■ ¿4, V %	
	\	Venezia	
	\ \ / \\ 4 Firenze S. \\ I	Al» «:. __
Istanbul
Ankara

Beirut
Darnas
T H H f f
MEDITERRANEAN
Down. -to-(EMiTA TA&Ócl	yotoV	cJ/éy CTuj)
We’re at your service — three ways!	No need to vacillate — alternate!
X. The President — Double-Decked Clippers from New York and Boston to London, Paris and Rome — exclusive with Pan American. Meals aloft are by Maxim’s of Paris, at no extra charge. The blue carpet you tread to the plane indicates the service to expect.
2,	The President Special — Double-Decked Clipper service. Even more deluxe version, only $25 extra
fare, with vintage champagne, extra attendants and Pan American’s exclusive Sleeperette Service ... so every lucky passenger of the limited list sleeps. Oversize berths, if preferred, at slight additional cost.
3.	The Rainbow—You can save up to a third between major cities from Calcutta to New York on Pan
American’s wonderful Clipper Tourist service. Big, fast Super-6 Clippers, flown by regular PAA crews, were especially designed for this service. And there’s no extra charge for the attractive meals.
Can’t decide which route to take? You don’t have to. Take both, one coming, one going. Fly from New York or Boston to London, Paris or Rome, for instance — then when you’ve swung around the southern area of the Mediterranean, return by way of PAA’s sunny southern route through Lisbon.
We’ve got connections — the best!
Wherever you plan to wander through the fascinating Mediterranean playgrounds — and even if parts of your trip are on other airlines — you can do it all on your Pan American ticket, with all arrangements made at one time. Alitalia, the Italian airline, links points in Italy, Greece and North Africa with Pan American’s Mediterranean gateways . . . Middle East Airways and other connecting airlines open still more territory. Truly, you can “do” the Mediterranean — even including the north coast of Africa — in but a brief holiday.
Paw Americas World Airways
World’s Most Experienced Airline