
Shangri-La of the Middle East
This is the country where, once upon a time, East met West — and they lived happily ever after! It’s a fact! Go to Lebanon and see for yourself. It’s a Christian-Moslem country where the Christians speak Arabic (French and English, too) and there’s a cosmopolitan air to delight the most worldly of travelers. It's the Biblical “Land of Milk and Honey”, with orange groves, olive groves, banana plantations — and, of course, the famous “Cedars of Lebanon”, 6,000 years old.
In Beirut, you live an outdoors-on-the-terracc life as relaxed and casual as you’ll find anywhere—and at night take your pick of some of the gayest night clubs in the whole Mediterranean. There’s the seashore for sunning, the mountains for skiing. The sights? See -— the National Museum, the American University, the Great Mosque, Garden of Rustin Pacha, Pigeons’ Grotto.
Milan is music to your ears, literally and figuratively, if music is your love, for Milan is the home of the world-famous La Scala Opera. And as if that weren’t sufficient glory—there’s the Milan Cathedral, be-pinnacled and be-statued beyond belief — and the magnificent “Last Supper” of Leonardo da Vinci.
. . . grandeur . . . and gaiety in
-r
Y ou’ll find plenty of all of them in Greece, and all so close, there’s very little you need to miss. Athens, you’ll find, is a bright, modern, outstandingly clean city built around its treasured ruins. Most of the most famous are on or around the Acropolis — the Temple of Zeus, the Odeon, the Parthenon, the Erectheum. When you take time out from sightseeing, relax in one of the many garden restaurants, savor delicious dolmadakia and other specialties of Greek cuisine. And don’t miss the many side-trips by car to places like Corinth and Delphi.
of Israel and Jordan where old dreams
and new come true . . . together
The Holy Lands offer an alluring “differentness” and diversions a-plenty. In Israel, see a new nation rising where civilization was born thousands of years ago. Visit Tel-Aviv, building for tomorrow, beautiful Haifa at the foot of Mt. Carmel, the only place where Israel’s mountains meet the sea. Tour Jerusalem and its environs, and see the places you’ve been told about since childhood — the Church of the Dormition, the Chamber of the Last Supper and King David’s tomb, held sacred by Jews and Moslems alike.
Pause to sip something soothing in a sidewalk cafe (they’re an institution in Tel-Aviv), go in for sand and water fun on the beautiful beaches, or con the concerts
you’ll be back among ancient Biblical days visiting such settings as the tMonnt of Olives outside Jerusalem.
for “music as you like it.” In a Thousand-and-One-Nights mood, visit Jordan, Israel’s Arab neighbor. (See both countries, but Jordan first, to avoid passport difficulties.) And everywhere Christian shrines move you to meditation — Bethlehem, the Wailing Wall, the Church of the Nativity, the Tomb of the Virgin Mary, and countless others.