For connoisseurs of cosmopolitan fun and frolic —-Turkey is rapidly becoming the “Capital of Pleasure”-And the first day you spend in Istanbul will tell you why. The climate? Splendid. The beaches? Superb. The food? So deliciously different it’s quite literally incomparable. The night life? Gay and inexhaustible. The surroundings? Byzantine and breathtaking.
See — St. Sofia . . . the Fountain of Sultan Ahmed III . . . the Dolma Bagche Palace . . . the Old Seraglio . . . the Grand Bazaar.
Shop for — rugs, gold and silver filigree work, Turkish candies, handmade embroideries, Bursa silks, ceramics.
Land of sun, sphinx and stars
And above all, land of immensities. Immensities of space . . . the desert stretching to the sky. Of time . . . history going back 7,000 years. Of stone . . . the Pyramids. Of wealth . . . the gold and jewel treasures of the Pharaoh tombs. Even as you make the rounds in Cairo or Alexandria, enjoying the modern,' sophisticated pleasures of their restaurants and night clubs, you’re always aware of the magnificent, haunting backdrop age-old Egypt gives her cities. See the Egyptian Museum, housing the treasures of Tutankhamen’s tomb . . . the Pyramids . . . theSphinx.
"Magic City" describes Istanbul where even this college on the Bosporus was once a citadel built by Mohammed 11.
T and of sand —
the North Coast of
From Egypt to Gibraltar stretch Libya, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco. White cities gleam here in the sun, shifting patterns float on a sea of sand, a muezzin calls the Faithful to prayer. See and hear them for yourself.
Bewitching Casablanca will tempt you to explore its native quarter, mid exotic Moorish gardens . . . while Marrakech beckons from beneath the glistening Atlas peaks, studded with sultans’ palaces.
Pan American makes excellent connections for North Africa. The storied cities of Tangier, Algiers, Tunis, Tripoli and Bengasi are far more fascinating in fact than in fiction. And by air — you’ll be there ... in a matter of just a few hours.
Smart setting for the smart set
Along the ageless Mile you'll find freight-laden native dhows with their picturesgue high lateen sails.