for war technicians, diplomatic couriers, military officials, foreign correspondents, mail and secret cargo. Special, secret missions were the order of the day! A crew would report for duty not knowing their ultimate destination in the world!
B-314
One of the first priority shipments was to India a week after Pearl Harbor. It included spare parts for Gen. Claire Chennault’s “Flying Tigers”! The delivery enabled 40 grounded P-40s to become airworthy! Another two Boeing Clippers were loaded at New York with 50 caliber ammunition in December, 1941, and lushed to the aid of General Douglas MacAr-thur’s forces in the Phillippines!
B-314 Engines
In the months following Pearl Harbor B 314s rushed blood plasma and other medical supplies to fighting fronts around the globe, and returned loaded with vital war materials such as crude rubber, scarce metals, etc. One important consignment was a shipment of vital tank parts and ammunition to Montgomery’s forces in N. Africa in 1942, just before the decisive battle at El Alamein. When Pres. Roosevelt went to Casablanca for his historic meeting with Churchjll in January, 1943, he was flown secretly in one of the N.Y. based B-314s, commanded by Capt. Howard Cone.
Douglas DC-4, 1945
Talks with Lockheed in 1939 resulted in an order for L-49 “Constellations” for Pan American in 1940. According to the Company’s plan then, these new aircraft would replace all flying boats on trans-ocean routes by the middle of 1943! At the outbreak of the war, however, all 4-engined transport production was taken over by the military air transport services!
A Motor Launch Clears the*Takeoff Path for a B-314
This magnificent airplane, the B-314, closed out the era of the flying boats! The boats had served their purpose well, in their time, and finally yielded to advancing technology! During the war the need for increased air logistics, to support the allied war effort, caused land air bases to be built all over the world; and Donald Douglas, in 1942, gave us a long range 4-engined land plane, the C-54, for military air transport service.
As early as 1936 Pan American and four other U.S. airlines subscribed a total of $500,000 toward the development of the DC-4. The prototype model was considerably refined and scaled down before going into production in 1940, emerging in the form familiar to us today.