In 1951 the airline adopted a new white-top^ paint, job, featuring “PAA” in large letters on the tail.
IATA’s approval of new N. Atlantic “tourist” fares coincided with the first deliveries of Pan American’s DC-6Bs which, in an 82-seat configuration and featuring weather radar for the first time, inaugurated Pan American’s new “Rainbow” service to London on the' 1st of May, 1952, at a fare of $270 one way. The new tourist class service soon doubled Pan Am’s traffic on the N. Atlantic.
Douglas DC-6B, 1952
At about that time BOAC was making spectacular news with the start of their Comet I jet service from London to Johannesburg. In the Fall of that year Pan American placed an order for 3 Comet Ills, with the intention of operating them across the Atlantic. It was the first time in history that a U.S. carrier had elected to buy a British airliner! Subsequent Comet crashes caused cancellation of that order.
In August, 1952, Pan American initiated a trans-Atlantic all-cargo service using DC-6As, which could accommodate 26,000 lb. payloads.
Striving for non-stop capabilities from N.Y. to the European gateways, TWA introduced “Super” Constellations on the N. Atlantic in October, 1953. Pan American responded with extra fuel tankage on their Stratocruisers to achieve nonstop eastbound crossing. DC-7Bs started service in June, 1955; and one year later Pan American introduced the DC-7Cs, a super long-range variant of the DC-7 line.
berths for all passengers (at a $50 surcharge) proved a popular service. Seven course meals were served on board. Orchids and perfume were presented to the ladies.
Although ponderous in appearance the Stratocruiser’s 3,500 HP P&W engines managed to pull it through the air faster than the Connie. Most important, the passengers liked its roominess and the lower lounge, permitted by the double-deck fuselage. Two private staterooms were available in the forward section, just behind the cockpit bulkhead. The crews, incidentally, loved the spaciousness of the B-377’s cockpit!
Stratocruiser Cockpit
In December, 1948, Pan American had concluded a tentative merger agreement with American Overseas Airline, one of their competitors on the North Atlantic. The CAB rejected this plan in May, 1950; but Pres. Truman overruled the CAB in Pan American’s favor and authorized the merger with AOA in September, 1950! Along with the AOA route system across the N. Atlantic to Northern Europe Pan American acquired 8 Stratocruisers, 7 Constellations, 4 DC-4s and one DC-3, at a price of $171/2 million.
In June, 1950, Pan American entered into a 3-year contract with MATS, operating 8 DC-4s and two Stratocruisers, carrying cargo and personnel between the U.S. West Coast and Tokyo during the Korean engagement.
B-377
Douglas DC-7C, 1956