Musick and crew prepared to take off from San Francisco Bay to inaugurate Pan American’s airmail schedule to Manila. A full hour of prime radio time was given over to coverage of this historic occasion. The radio announcer, in his remarks preliminary to the departure, called this “one of the most dramatic events in the history of our modern world!’’
M-130 China Clipper
Thousands turned out to welcome the flight at Manila six days later! Capt. Musick and his crew of the “China Clipper” had flown the 8,210 miles from San Francisco to Manila in 59:48 of flying time,- having taken rest stops at Honolulu, Midway, Wake and Guam. Pan American established scheduled passenger service across the Pacific the following year, in October, 1936. Typical of Pan American’s thoroughness, the airline had flown the route almost a year carrying only mail and cargo to work the bugs out of the operation.
Few aircraft in commercial aviation history have so captured the attention, indeed the admiration, of the American public as did the three Martin “Clippers” of Pan American! In those days it was the “in” thing to have flown on the China Clipper to Hawaii or beyond to the Orient, rather like the jet set of the 1960s! The Warner Bros, film “China Clipper”, starring Pat O’Brien and Humphrey Bogart, further popularized the Martin ships.
China Clipper departing for Hawaii
Martin M-130 Cabin
Having spanned the Pacific, the Company turned their attention again to the Atlantic, the world’s most challenging ocean! As the era of the great German dirigibles came to an unfortunate end in May, 1937, Pan American’s large 4-engined flying boats were beginning to prove themselves in trans-ocean service.
The long discussions on reciprocal operating rights with the United Kingdom finally ended with an agreement in February, 1937; and Pan American started service to Bermuda in June, 1937, operating from their seaplane base at Port Washington, on the north shore of Long Island. The fare to Bermuda was $126.
The trans-Atlantic service would require a special airplane! The Boeing Co. of Seattle responded to Pan American’s requirements by producing the Boeing B-314 flying boat. First delivered in January, 1939, this plane could be grossed up to 82,500 lbs. The B-314s weighed half again as much as the Martin Clippers, and their Wright Cyclone engines produced almost double the power of those on the Martin, at 1500 hp each!
Boeing B-314, 1939
The Boeing Clippers were the last word in luxury air travel. The B-314 could carry 30 passengers across the Atlantic, cruising at 145