Pan American in Central and S. America and in Alaska. The F-71, too, had a Wasp 420 hp engine and could carry six passengers.
Mr. Trippe’s vision was ahead of the technology of the times. In the early 1930s he called for bigger planes, with greater load capacities, higher speeds and more range!
Sikorsky S-40, 1931
Guided by Pan American’s specifications, the Sikorsky Co. produced the first four-engined flying boat to be built in America, the S-40. This plane,-the world’s largest amphibian,- was also the largest transport plane yet built in the U.S.! It could carry up to 40 passengers at 100 mph! The ship’s normal range was about 500 miles carrying 36 passengers and mail. But its range could be extended to 800 miles or more at reduced payload. The S-40 was an impressive aircraft in its day! It had a 114 ft. wing span; and when the plane stood on its wheels, the wing towered more than 23 ft. above the ground!
S-40 at Barge Terminal, Dinner Key
Although Pan American’s three S-40s were delivered with wheels attached,-as amphibians,-the Company soon removed the wheels and operated the ships in the pure boat configuration. This gave the ship another ton of useful load capacity!
On October 10, 1931, Capt. Basil Rowe and his crew took official delivery of the first of the S-40s at the Sikorsky plant and flew it down to Washington to the Anacostia Naval Air Station
where it had been, arranged for Mrs. Herbert Hoover to christen the ship “American Clipper.’’ This was the first Pan American plane to carry the term, “Clipper”, in its name. The Washington event drew a crowd of 12,000 people. Two days of public demonstration flights impressed upon the Washington guests that .this plane was introducing a new standard of luxury and comfort in air travel.
Charles Lindbergh made no bones about his objection to the forest of struts and wires when the design was first proposed to Pan American. Lindbergh had lengthy conversations with Mr. Sikorsky about cleaning up the design in a successor model.
Charles Lindbergh & Basil Rowe
In 1931 Pan American announced its need for an even bigger and faster airplane with a much greater range than the S-40. Mr. Trippe was not content with just linking the America’s with an air route system. The oceans had to be crossed!
In 1931 Col. Lindbergh and his wife, Anne, in a Lockheed Sirius had surveyed the N. Pacific for a possible great circle route to the Orient. Then, in 1933, the Lindberghs made another survey tour,- this time of the N. Atlantic. The Atlantic survey took the pair 30,000 miles exploring flying and communications conditions for Pan American. The Lindberghs made stops in Labrador, Greenland, Iceland, and the Scandinavian countries,-then went down through Europe to W. Africa and across to S. America,- finally ending up at Miami five and one half months later, in December, 1933.
Only Sikorsky and Martin responded to Pan American’s call for aircraft of greater speed, range and load-carrying capacity. Sikorsky offered the S-42, a refined version of the S-40. The wing design was considerably improved over the slab-like wing of the S-40. The wing was tapered and used trailing edge flaps. The cruising speed of the S-42 was 140 mph; yet