The DC-3s came along in 1937 with larger fuselages and engines of 1,000 hp each. The 21 passenger DC-3 had a decisive impact in commercial aviation! It was the most successful transport aircraft yet built! Its larger fuselage permitted the installation of a third row of seven seats in the cabin,- a 50 percent increase in passenger capacity over its predecessor, the DC-2. Mr. C.R. Smith of American Airlines has said, “The DC-3 was the first airplane that could make money just by hauling passengers”! Heretofore, an airline had to have an airmail contract in order to show a profit!
Douglas DC-3, 1937
In January, 1935, the Pacific Division of Pan American Airways had been established at Alameda, California, on San Francisco Bay. Because of frustrating political considerations over the proposed N. Pacific and N. Atlantic routes, the decision was made at this time to go for the island route across the central Pacific to the Orient! Hawaii, Midway, Wake and Guam offered stepping-stone waypoints to the Phillip-pines without political problems,- since all of these islands were U’.S. territories. Here Trippe was embarking upon one of the most ambitious moves in the history of airline operations!
During the Spring of 1935 Pan American dispatched a 15,000 ton cargo vessel, “North Haven”, from San Francisco carrying personnel and equipment to set up complete flying boat bases at Midway, Wake and Guam, and to reinforce the bases at Honolulu and Manila. In four months this desolate island chain beyond Hawaii was changed into fully functioning operating bases for an air route to the Far East!
S-42 Survey Flight, April, 1935
On April 16th, 1935, Capt. Edwin Musick and a crew of five men departed from Alameda on a series of survey flights to Manila,- proceeding by making a round trip to Honolulu first, and then adding another sector with each successive flight as the mid-Pacific bases were readied, one-by-one. One of Pan American’s S-42s had been fitted out with extra fuel tanks and ferried to the West Coast from Miami to be used in the Pacific survey flights while the Company awaited delivery of their new Martin M-130 flying boats.
Martin M-130, “China Clipper”, 1935
The first Martin Clipper was delivered to Pan American in the Fall of that year, 1935. The Martin ship was somewhat larger than the S-42,- about 9,000 lbs. heavier,- with more powerful engines, 830 hp P-W Wasps. A design feature of this beautiful ship was the stubby, wing-like sponsons at the water line of the hull, which substituted for the usual outrigger wing floats. Such seawings had previously been used on the famous German Dornier flying boats a few years earlier. The sponsons not only gave stability on the water, but also gave an added measure of lift in flight, while providing additional space in which to store much of the plane’s 4,000 gallons of fuel.
Trans-Pacific Inaugural Ceremony Alameda, Nov. 22, 1935
On November 22, 1935, an estimated 25,000 people were on hand at Alameda as Capt.