Boeing B-307, 1940
The Boeing Company, too, produced a four-engined commercial land plane, the B-307 “Stratoliner”, a commercial outgrowth of Boeing’s B-17 “Flying Fortress”! In July, 1940, Pan American introduced the B-307s on their Caribbean routes. First ordered in March, 1937, this plane introduced the first pressurized cabin to go into regular airline service. The airline was able to offer a 1200-mile nonstop service between Miami and the Panama Canal Zone. Flying time on that route was reduced to 6 1/2 hours!
So, the flying boats, born of the technology of the 1930s faded into obsolescence with the advancing technology of the war years. At the outbreak of the war, however, Pan American’s big flying boats were the only transports capable of ocean crossings, carrying any kind of reasonable load. Nevertheless, all of the U.S. airlines were eventually mobilized behind the war effort. But the operating and technical expertise of Pan American was sought out long
before the U.S. became an active beligerent in the war!
Knowing well Pan American’s skill at carving airports out of impenatrable jungles, the U.S. Government contracted with the Company late in 1940 to establish a string of air bases stretching from the Bahamas through the W. Indies to British Guiana.
Then in 1941 another Pan American subsidiary, PAA Africa, was placed under contract by the British Government to establish a string of
air bases and to operate an air service through these bases across Africa, - from Dakar to Cairo, -in order to open an aerial supply route to the British forces in N. Africa and the Middle East. The route was operational in 61 days! Pan American Air Ferries engaged in the movement of lend-lease aircraft from Miami to Cairo over this new route through Africa.
In the Summer of 1940 Pan American set up an air navigation school at Miami. During the four years of the school’s operation the Company trained 5,000 navigators for the U.S. forces and an additional several hundred for the British!
Lockheed Lodestar, 1941
The fourteen-passenger Lockheed Lodestars came into service in 1941. This fast twin-engined airliner was placed on our Alaskan routes and on Pan Air ,do Brazil’s routes in S. America.
When the “Burma Road” was closed by the Japanese late in 1941, Pan American’s China affiliate, CNAC, opened an air supply route over the eastern Himalayas from Rangoon into S.E. China. The route became known as “The Hump.” Pan American formed the Africa Orient Division in November, 1942. Using C-54s the A.O. Div. operated a fast “Cannonball” service from Miami to India for the Air Transport Command. At the peak of operations (1945) the A-0 Division was flying seven flights daily in each direction!
Late in 1942 the Company’s Alaska Division was taken over by the U.S. Navy. The airline continued operating these facilities and routes under contract for the Naval Air Transport Service (NATS). Pan American’s Alaska system thus provided a ready-made-supply line for the U.S. military operations in Alaska at the outbreak of the war.
The big flying boats of Pan American’s Pacific Division were bought by the U.S. Government and operated on Pacific routes by Pan American for the Naval Air Transport Service. Using its older flying boats, the airline operated several flights weekly between Man-