Projecting traffic growth trends into the 1970s and 1980s it was anticipated that a much larger aircraft than the big 707s and DC-8s would be needed.
Boeing’s proposal for a giant, wide-bodied commercial jet evolved from their bid on a USAF giant transport contract which was won by Lockheed With their C-5A proposal. The prototype B-747 first flew in February, 1969. Pan Am’s first 747 was delivered in December, 1969, about 3 1/2 years after Trippe had placed the original order for 25 of the big jets! On January 21st, 1970, Pan American started the first commercial service with the B-747 with their inaugural flight on the New York to London route.
Pan Am was plagued by engine problems on their new 747s, as well as with other break-in troubles commonly encountered with the introduction of a new type of aircraft. Pan Am had to bear the brunt of these problems, which came in large doses, since 20 of the company’s new 747s were delivered within the span of a few months!
This enormous increase in passenger-carrying capacity came at a time when the U.S. economy took a downward turn and airline traffic growth almost stagnated. The financial results were disastrous for Pan Am! Losses were posted by the airline for every year through 1975 since introduction of the 747s on Pan Am’s routes six years earlier.
Aside from the financial problems involved with introduction of the 747s it must be noted that the “jumbo jet’’ was immediately popular with the traveling public. The era of the “Wide-bodied” jets was irreversibly launched, and the operating economies they promised needed a favorable economic climate in which to prove themselves.
The pilots who fly the 747 have acclaimed it the finest airliner they have ever flown! Despite its massive size the plane is operated by a crew of three - captain, first officer and flight engineer - in contrast to a normal operating crew of nine on the old B-314 flying boats. In term's of seat-miles per hour (passenger capacity multiplied by speed) the 747 makes the pilot more than 200 times more productive than when he flew the Ford tri-motors 45 years ago!
In 1976 Pan Am took delivery of their first B-747SP aircraft. This type is a shortened version of the original 747 - being 47 ft. shorter - and carries advanced P & W engines, the JT 9D-7A powerplant. The ships have extreme long-range capability at normal cruising levels
above 40,000 ft.! The Company is operating these planes on non-stop services between New York - Tokyo, New York - Bahrein, and between San Francsico and both Auckland, N.Z. and Sydney, Australia.
The “SP”
Pan Am’s management had high hopes of showing an operating profit in 1973; but then the fuel crisis hit us. This caused Pan Am’s fuel costs to increase $204 million for the year, and the Company finished out its fifth successive year in the red.
The airline intensified efforts at slimming down operations and restructuring the route system through route swap agreements with TWA and American Airlines, and the dropping of unprofitable routes. Employee ranks were cut over 25 percent. The nation was made aware of the airline’s problems by an unprecedented publicity effort initiated by the employees. For Pan Am employees the spirit of pioneering and enterprise which characterized this Company’s past stands as an inspiring heritage in the American tradition!
Pan Am’s chairman, William T. Seawell, said recently, “At Pan Am, we look to the past with pride. But we must also look to the future with determination to keep Pan Am and other U.S.-flag airlines in the forefront of world aviation.”
Pan Am’s management is confident that seven years of economic crisis has forced them to create one of the world’s most efficient airlines. Barring a further turn-down in the economic environment or a sharp rise in fuel prices, Pan Am looks forward to a profitable year in the Airline’s 50th year of operations, 1977, and a continuing role as the proud bearer of the American flag around the world!