Interior
Design
Radiant Treating and
Air Conditioning
Soundi|
Proofing
Delightful
Dining
Panoramic
Windows
Luxurious
Dressing
Rooms
SEVEN SCENES FROM YOUR “DREAM” FLIGHT
Your seat aboard the Super-Seven is reserved — especially for you. But more than that. Its foam soft cushions and its adjustable leg rests are designed for just one thing: to banish fatigue and let you relax. Touch a button and the seat reclines. Now you’re all set for the most comfortable ride ever created.
Your cabin is comfortably air conditioned with individual control to assure your personal comfort. The air in the cabin is completely changed every three minutes.
The interiors of the Super-Sevens have been designed with the utmost care. Relaxing colors, special materials — custom tailored to please your discriminating eye. You’ll feel at home in the quiet atmosphere of the Super-Seven Clipper.
The Super-Sevens have advanced sound-proofing systems. Special attachments and triple-pane windows seal out vibrations and reduce — to a purr — the engine and aerodynamic noise.
And you’ll purr softly, too, when mealtime comes ’round. Delicious hot meals are served you without charge. Meals are served, of course, on a convenient, individual table at your seat. Bar service is available. :
Regardless of what you do, you’ll be ready for steady enjoyment, for the new Super-Seven guarantees you a steady flight 4- over the weather, above turbulent air.
Dressing rooms are spacious, allow plenty of room for freshening up. Lots of mirror surface, too, and everything spotlessly clean.
PLUS... SEVEN OUTSTANDING FEATURES TO GIVE WINGS TO YOUR “DREAM”
Dreams — especially flying dreams — don’t come true by themselves. Someone has to translate them into reality. In the case of the Super-Seven Clipper, that “someone” was Pan American’s engineers, working together with Douglas engineers to perfect the final design. Some of their results are shown here — in these seven outstanding features of the Super-Seven Clipper.
Four Wright turbo-compound engines develop .13,400 horsepower — extra power that enables the Super-Seven Clipper to fly with extra speed and dependability.
.Titanium, the new miracle metal, is used extensively in the Super-Seven. This metal has high strength and great resistance to high temperatures. It is 40 per cent lighter than most other metals. Titanium means added speed for you.
Such advanced engineering achievements as thermal anti-icing equipment assures perfect Super-Seven performance in any kind of weather.
The Super-Seven travels 353 miles per hour. It is a long range airplane, which means non-stop
operation between New York and Paris or London. Hence swifter through service.
How far is up? To the Super-Seven, “up” is 20,000 feet — its cruising altitude, where the sun’s the brightest and the air’s the smoothest.
The Super-Seven can operate from any of the world’s metropolitan airports. Tricycle, dualwheel landing gears and steerable nose-wheel means maximum taxiing and maneuverability for your comfort.
Finally, the Super-Seven will fly you non-stop any day of the week to Paris (11 hours) or London (10% hours) ... the fastest to Europe!
iüj
Rills
I i
■sí
an
■ • j
lllfc
WSSSm
Clipper TRADE-MARK Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.