Here’s real take-it-easy comfort! Pan American’s Sleeperettes look more comfortable . . . really are more comfortable than ordinary seating. You sink right into the soft, luxurious, foam-rubber cushions. The curved headrest comfortably supports your head.
Like a little social get-together? Then ask your neighbors to join you. Sleeperette seats can be turned around to face each other. It’s ideal for family groups or game enthusiasts.
The fold-away table
(with a reading rack) can be adjusted for cards and other games, for reading, writing or office work such as typing; and busy executives have "office” privacy at any time.
Mighty handy at mealtime — this adjustable table. There’s no balancing of tray on lap. It adds to the enjoyment of the delicious meals and light snacks served aloft. . . and that goes for beverages from the bar, too.
After meals you can lean back, stretch out your legs for restful relaxation, and ride through the skies— at peace with the world. With Sleeperette comfort, great distances in the Pacific become pleasant, easy hops.
Pioneer in the Pacific. In the 19 years since Pan American pioneered over-ocean transport, Flying Clippers have flown over 6 million passengers more than half-a-billion overseas miles. That's equivalent to more than 71,000 Pacific crossings. First airline to span this vast ocean (1935), Pan American today serves the entire Pacific Basin.
Pioneer in service, too. In establishing the world’s longest commercial airlanes, Pan American developed many important trans-ocean services . . . including long-range weather forecasting, improved radio equipment, instrument flying and advanced aerial navigation. Many other services have been introduced by Pan American —from in-flight meals to steward service. And now, the Sleeperette.
Time-tested equipment. Big, 4-engine Clippers serve you in the Pacific. Douglas DC-4s that took the greatest flight test in the history of aviation. Logging millions of miles under grueling wartime conditions, the Douglas DC-4 was rated perfect for performance, safety and durability.
Best-trained personnel. Ymr pilot? He’s gone through the world’s most rigid training! He has averaged more than ll/2 million miles in the air. He’s the world’s most experienced over-ocean pilot. And he captains a seasoned multiple crew— a vital safety factor.
WORLD-WIDE SAFETY RECORD
For logging 43,878,591 flying miles without a single flight accident, Pan American now holds the coveted Aviation Safety Award for 1946.
	
¡¡I	
10 4«	
	
	
Agent for
Pan American Airways
'-'¡he System of ifie'S'/yiny (flippers
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
Lithographed in U. S. A.	P35-7	© Pan American Airways, Inc., 1947
LAcc2,
a luxurious new travel unit with day and night comfort
exclusively for passengers on the world-famous FLYING CLIPPERS
*Copyright 1947, Pan American Airways, Inc., Patent applied for