Another treat for American travelers is the charm of castles, chateaux and other ancient buildings that have been turned into country inns. Contemplating the very age of these places, the things that have happened there, is exciting in itself. Royalty prices? — not at all. There’s a magnificent inn not far from the Rhine in Germany which was once a hunting lodge of the Princes of Nassau where you can get a choice double room with bath for a little over $7. In France’s Chateau Country, overlooking a great stretch of the Loire River, there’s a converted monastery with bedrooms big and scrumptious enough for a king, and bathrooms to match, for under $8. And nothing can match your awe when you are ushered to your hotel room within the turreted walls of the ancient fortress city of Carcassonne, or your delight when you are presented a bill in the morning for only $7.54. Your Travel Agent will know of many other similar places.
Meals, too, are easy on the pocketbook. Even in the poshest hotels, the finest restaurants — with polished, perfect service and attention, and more courses than you can eat — the bill for two can be as little as $8. Or think of steak for two — not ordinary steak, but Chateaubriand — for $4! In the category of pure pleasure, consider a Swiss cheese fondue, from a great bubbling pot. At three times the price it would be a wonderful meal — at less than two dollars it’s tremendous. In most cases, a Continental breakfast of coffee and croissant is included in the room rate. Europeans eat lightly at breakfast — you may enjoy it, too.
On the other hand, mid-day and evening meals are a ritual. Dinner is intended to last well into the evening, and luncheons are gargantuan. Actually, many American driving tourists prefer to forego hotel or restaurant meals at noon — one multi-course dinner a day is enough. Instead, they stop in a bakery for a long loaf of bread, in a grocer’s for cheese, and in a wine shop for a bottle of vintage — and eat by the side of the road. It’s grand fun, and saves
20