MEXICO
cheese and green peppers or beans, and under huevos rancheros, which are fried eggs covered with tomato and chili sauce. The sauces, too, are of a kind you’re not likely to meet elsewhere—such as Pipihn, made of green tomatoes, chili, and pumpkin seeds, and mole verde, a green vegetable sauce. Look for fish specialties: pescado blanco—delicate white lake fish, and huachinango—red snapper. Mexican cooks have an imaginative way with vegetables as well. Try chiles rellenos (stuffed peppers) and frijoles refritos (fried mashed beans), or guacamole (avocado mashed with onion and tomato). Other dishes to look for are cabrito (kid) and all the tropical fruits—papaya, pineapples, limes, higos rebandos (sliced fresh figs), mangoes, pomegranates, guavas, and zapote. The price of a meal can be as low as 35 pesos, but a four-course meal costs about 100 pesos in a medium-priced restaurant and 200 pesos in the best places.
For restaurants with Mexican atmosphere and food as well as international cuisine, there are two haciendas in Mexico City: Hacienda Los Morales (Vásquez de Mella525) and San Angel Inn (Palmas 50), both expensive. In the same class are Ambassadeurs (Paseo de la Reforma 12); Mirabel (Reforma 509); Anderson’s (Reforma 400); del Lago (Nuevo Bosque de Chapultepec); Jena (Morelos 110); Rivoli (Hamburgo 123); Sir Winston Churchill (Blvd. Avila Camacho, 64); Loredo (Hamburgo 29), for regional Mexican dishes; and Passy (Amberes 10). Specialty restaurants include La Lorraine (San Luis Potosí 132), Normandie (Niza 5), Fouquet’s (Camino Real), all French; Picadilly (Copenhague 23), English; Párador (Calle de Niza 177), Spanish; Mauna Loa (San Jeronimo 240), Polynesian; Focolare (Flamburgo 87), Italian; Acapulco (L6pez 8), seafood; Chalet Suizo (Niza 37), German-Swiss, very popular with tourists; Bellinghausen (Londres 595), German; La Mansion (Insurgentes 778) and La Troje Pepe’s (Insurgentes and Millet), Argentinian; Shirley’s Restaurant (Sullivan 166), American. Recommended moderately priced places are La Cava (Insurgents 2465), French; El 77 (Londres 77); and all the 31 branches of VIP’s. Try, too, Sanborns’ restaurants (a dozen or so of them) and Woolworth’s blue-plate specials. Look for inexpensive meals in the Arizpe area, opposite Frontón.
DRINKING TIPS
Mexico’s own drinks are made from the agave plant. Most famous is tequila, drunk as an apfertif or in cocktails like the tequila sour, the Margarita (with lime juice and Cointreau), or the sunrise (grenadine and lime juice). Other drinks are mescal and pulque—less popular with the tourist. Imported drinks are expensive; whisky costs about 40 pesos, and a bottle of imported wine in a restaurant will rarely go below 200 pesos; choice vintages can cost several thousand. But there are good cheap local wines, beers, and liqueurs. Mexican men drink in cantinas or salones de cerveza, which are open from noon to 1 am but closd on Sundays and on the days before public holidays. Women never enter these places. Women may go to other drinking bars but should be escorted.