MEXICO
Amèricas on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, and Sunday afternoons. Admission is free to tourists with their tourist cards, except for a small tax. There is also limited auto racing, soccer, golf, tennis, horseback riding, polo, bowling, swimming, and water sports of all kinds. The island of Cozumel off the Yucatán coast, 20 minutes by air from Mèrida, is one of the world’s best places for fishing and skin-diving. For surfing, go to Mazatlân. The fisherman can choose from countless lakes and rivers, and the hunter has every kind of terrain from mountains to jungle where the animals still roam free. Fishing and hunting permits have to be obtained, as well as a license to bring a gun into the country.
WHAT TO SEE
Mexico City
From the Zócalo, the main square in the center of Mexico City, you can see the imposing National Palace, the Cathedral, the Town Hall, and the Supreme Courts, the Aztec Ruins, the Monte de Piedad (official pawnshop), and the Latin-American Tower. Walk toward it to find the House of Tiles, the baroque church of San Francisco, and the Alameda Gardens. Go to the top of the Tower for a superb view over the city and its site, then visit the Palacio de Bellas Artes, with exhibitions of Mexican art and a glass Tiffany curtain. You also get a wonderful view from the still higher Hotel Mexico on Avenida Insurgentes Sur. At Chapultepec Park you will find the whole of Mexico’s history vividly set out. The National Museum of Anthropology (open Tuesday to Saturday, 9-7 and Sunday 10-7) should be at the top of your list. Next go to El Castillo de Chapultepec, the Palace of Maximilian, and the National Museum of History (open daily 10-6). In the same park are a zoo, botanical gardens, a fun fair, an elaborate playground for children, two further museums, and an underwater mural by Diego Rivera. His collection of Aztec sculpture is to be seen at the Anahuacalli Museum (in the suburb of San Pablo Tepetlapa). You may also want to see the Museum of Religious Art (open 9-1 except Thursdays and Sundays), for its vestments and altar furniture; the San Carlos Museum, with its paintings by El Greco, Titian, Bosch, and Van Dyck; the National Museum of Popular Arts (open Wednesday and Saturday 11-8, other days 10-5, closed Sundays), where you can buy the crafts on display; the Museum of Mexico City, in a palace of pink stone at Pino Suárez 30 (open Tuesday to Sunday, 9:30-7); the Square of the Three Cultures in Nonoalco Tlatelolco; and the Plaza de Santo Domingo, where the Inquisition once sat. In the suburb of Tlalpkn is the oldest building on the American continents—the Pyramid of Cuicuilco.
Outside Mexico City: Two trips are musts—go to the Floating Gardens of Xochimilco, to be poled in bright boats (trajineros) through the canals to the sound of mariachi music, and to the great pyramids of Teotihuackn, from a civilization older than the Aztecs. A more ambitious day trip is to Cuernavaca and Taxco. The first has been a fashionable resort since Aztec times; see Cortès’ palace with its Rivera murals, the Cathedral, the Teopanzolso double pyramid, and the beautiful Borda