MEXICO
ENTERTAINMENT
The most important center in Mexico City is the Palacio de Bellas Artes, where visiting companies appear; this is the home of the Ballet Folklórico, presented on Sundays at 9:30am, 12 noon and 9:00pm and on Wednesdays at 9:00pm. Theater is in Spanish, but an English performance of son et lumière at the pyramids of Teotihuacan takes place at 7pm except during the rainy season, May through September. Films are usually shown in their original language. There are frequent musical concerts both in halls and in the open air, and you can choose from several musical comedies, vaudeville shows, and a burlesque theater. Night life is plentiful and imaginative. Most big hotels have their own cabarets and discotheques, including the Barbarella at the Hotel Fiesta Palace and those at the Maria Isabel, the Aristos, the Camino Real, and the Alameda hotels. At the Hotel Cortès there is folk dancing on the patio of an old building on Saturdays from 8-10pm while you dine (200 pesos cover charge). Other places with music until 4am include the El Patio (Atenas 5), El Señorial (Hamburgo and Florencia), and restaurants and clubs around Garibaldi Square.
SHOPPING
Stores open 10-7 and until 8 on Wednesdays and Saturdays. The best shops are in the Niza district (known as Zona Rosa or the Pink Zone), off Reforma. No bargaining there, but do haggle in markets and small shops. The obvious bargain is silver, sometimes as a setting for amethysts and opals. But look for the official hallmark, a spread eagle. There is also basketwork, pottery, and tiles, carved onyx, tin and copper work, lacquerware, and hand-blown glass. The blankets are thick and brilliantly colored, the blouses beautifully embroidered, and the long-fringed shawls a specialty. For under 400 pesos you can also get handworked leather and dolls. Good places to buy are the Museum of Popular Arts and Crafts, government-run and housed in an old colonial church (Avenida Juárez 44), the Monte de Piedad (Zócalo), which is a pawnshop also run by the government, and the Bazaar Sábado in the San Angel suburb. This opens only on Saturdays. For basketwork go to the San Juan Market, and on Sunday morning at 11 you can find the Flea Market at La Lagunilla. Also go to the Handicraft Market at Revillagigedo 29 and to branches of Sanborn’s. There is also a handicrafts market at La Ciudadela. Other markets: Xochimilco, Teotihuackn, Chaleo (open every day), Amecameca, Cuernavaca (open on Sunday only). On Friday there is the fabulous market at Toluca, an hour’s drive from the city.
SPORTS
The great spectacles are the bullfight and the charreada—a Mexican rodeo. The proper season for bullfights fis from November to April, but it varies and they start at 4:30pm on Sundays. Tickets cost between 4 and 400 pesos. At 7:30 every night except Mondays and Fridays there is jai lai at Frontón Mexico; horse racing takes place at the Hipodrómo de Las