MEXICO
Jade, by plane or train. This is the center for exploring the fabulous cities of Monte Alban andMitla, holy ground of the Zapotees and Mixtees. The ruins of these sacred cities contain huge place buildings, pyramids, walls, tombs, and sculptures. Gold and jade jewelry, along with crystal and alabaster carved vessels found at Monte Alban, can be seen in the museum of Oaxaca. Oaxaca also has a market worth waiting for on Saturday and spectacular fiestas at the end of July. The Hotel Victoria, Pan American Highway 190 KM545 (from US$23 double), is on the outskirts of the city. Villahermosa is best approached via the lively city of Veracruz, famous for its Mardi Gras celebrations, or you can fix the 500 miles direct. Here is the great La Venta Museum of Olmec carvings—old as Tyre. From here you should visit Palenque, 89 miles south. Trips are easily organized by car, train, or air taxi; you can stay in a small hotel next to the ruins. This is the center of a great complex of ancient ruins— palaces—extending over 20 square miles. Next site is Bonampak, where the final leg must be done on horseback. Even more hidden by the jungle is Yaxchilkn, reachable only by the determined. To discoxer the great Maya culture you must go to Merida in the Yucatán, a thousand miles from Mexico City. Here you will be at the center of a vast area of deserted cities of the Mayans, most prolific of builders and sculptors. Many of the sites are choked by the jungle, still to be discovered, or reachable only by long jeep rides. Hotels in Mhrida include the Maya Excelsior, Calle 58, 483 (from US$ 18 double); Del Prado, Calle 67, 464 (from US$6 double), and Montejo Palace, Paseo de Montejo 483C (from US$20 double). From the White City, Mérida, you can go for a day to spectacular Chichkn Itzk. In the shadow of the great pyramid lie the Red Jaguar Throne, the ball court, a round observatory, and the complex Temple of the Warriors. Go first, though, to the Institute to learn about what has been found here. To the south is Uxmal, which has perhaps the finest of the Mayan buildings; the remarkable House of the Governor. Here the graceful Mayan work is seen beside later grim Toltec carvings. By contrast, just off the coast are the holiday islands of Cozumel and Isla Mujeres, where there are superb fishing, sailing, and swimming and the new Mexican resort paradise of Cancún, with its beaches of fine, white sand.
Acapulco: Then there is the great Mexican resort of Acapulco, said to have the best beach, best hotels and nightclubs in the Americas. Hotels in Acapulco:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Acapulco Imperial, Costera Miguel Alemán 251 (from $43 CP) Acapulco Princess, Guerrero (from $120 MAP)
Condesa del Mar, Costera Miguel Alemán, overlooking the bay (from $74 MAP)
Continental, Costera Miguel Alemán (from $68 MAP)
El Presidente, Costera Miguel Alemán (from $68 MAP)
Fiesta Tortuga, Costera ;Miguel Alemán (from $65 MAP)
Holiday Inn, Costera Miguel Alemán 1260 (from $90 double MAP)