MEXICO
Gardens. Then on to Taxco, “Silver City,” a good place to buy sterling silver, to sit and listen to music, to see Santa Prisca, an outstanding baroque church, or to enjoy a fiesta. Dates of festivals in the area are: 18 January, Santa Prisca; 2 February, Candelaria; 4 March, Holy Week, when children dance; 3 May, Santa Cruz (fireworks); and24 September. Hotels in Taxco are Posada de la Misión, Cerro Cruz de la Misión 32 (from US$18 double), and Holiday Inn, 3 miles from downtown (from US$36 double). From Mexico City you can drive out to the Toluca district and explore Indian villages, drive into the crater of a volcano called the Nevado, bargain in Toluca’s famous market, and see the great ruins at Calixtlahuaca and Malinalco, one of the most beautiful of ancient buildings. To the southeast about 86 miles is Puebla, city of ceramics. Homes, fountains, churches are covered with brilliant local tiles. You can buy the pottery in the market. Accommodations are available at the Hotel Posada San Pedro, 2 Oriente 202 (from US$18 double). From here go to visit the richly decorated church of San Francisco Acatepec, 5 miles southwest, and do not miss Cholula, holy city of the Aztecs, with its vast pyramid. Fiestas are held here on 2 February, 25 July, 15 August, 6-9 September (Indian dances), 2 November. On your way see the ancient frescoes at Tizatlán.
The North
North lies Tula, long-lost city of the Toltecs, with its majestic stone figures and 16th-century church. On the same trip you can go to Tepotzlkn, a village famous for its baroque seminary, and Pachuca. Beyond is the flower garden of Mexico, where orchids are grown, and the towns of Huauchinango and Xocotepec de Juárez.
To the northwest is the great sea-sport area. La Paz, Guaymas, and Mazatlhn are the famous resorts, where the hunting is also good. You can get to Mazatlán by air from Mexico City or Los Angeles. Nearer the capital is Mexico’s second city, Guadalajara. A gracious colonial town, it is famous for its mild, healthy climate and the paintings of Orozco. Hotels in Guadalajara centrally located unless otherwise indicated: Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower Camino Real, Avenida Vallarta 5005, % mile from center (from $43) De Mendoza, Via Carranza 64 (from $19)
Guadalajara Sheraton, Ninos Heroes y 16 de Septiembre, at entrance to Guadalajara from the airport (from $43)
Holiday Inn, Lopez Mateos and Mariano Otero, 6 miles from center (from $38)
Near here is Tequila, home of the well-known liquor, where a celebrated fiesta is held on 12 December. Also north of the capital are Guanajuato and San Miguel Allende, where there is the Hotel Posada de San Francisco, Plaza Principal (from US$24 double MAP). Worth a visit is the enigmatic but strangely preserved city of La Quemada.
The Southeast
This is the richest route for travelers. First, go south to Oaxaca, City of