MEXICO
Tipping: Luggage porters 5-10 pesos per bag, with a minimum of 10 pesos; taxi driver, 5 pesos; hotel porter, 10 pesos for getting a taxi; chambermaid, 20 pesos a day; cloakroom attendants, 5-10 pesos; waiter 15$ (a 15$ tax will be removed if you show the waiter your tourist card); museum guides, 5 pesos; sightseeing guides, 20 pesos per person per trip.
Electricity: 110 volts 60 cycles AC.
Laundry: Readily available, and standards are high (dry-cleaning a suit, from 75 pesos; laundering a shirt, from 20 pesos).
Hairdressing: Major hotels have salons (shampoo and set, from 250 pesos; man’s haircut, from 100 pesos).
Photography: Film and equipment readily available in cities; and film can be developed quickly. Black and white film costs about 40 pesos, color 90 pesos.
Clubs: Lions, Rotary, Freemasons, and Jaycees.
Babysitting: Arranged by good hotels.
Rest Rooms: In hotels, restaurants, and major stores. Women, Damas or Mujeres; men, Caballeros or Hombres.
Health: Doctors and dentists generally speak English. Drink bottled water and wash fruit. Imported pharmaceuticals available, but Mexican equivalents are good and less expensive. Remember the altitude and take it easy at first.
TRANSPORTATION
In Mexico City, try to avoid riding the subway (open 6am-midnight) during rush hours. Stations are decorative works of art; at Pion Su&rez station there is a complete Aztec altar. Books of tickets can be bought at stations and some tobacco shops. Buses are frequent and inexpensive. Shared cruising taxis cost 5-10 pesos; ordinary taxis, 20-50 pesos for rides in the city center. In the country buses are inexpensive, and there is a first-class long-distance service to all major cities. Most cities can also be reached by railroad, but air is the most convenient form of travel. There are several internal airlines, including Aero-Mexico and Mexicana. Cars can be rented in major cities, with or without driver, from about 304 pesos (US$13.50) a day (plus mileage charge) about 90 pesos an hour (US$3.97) if chauffeur-driven; double for English-speaking driver.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Lunch is the heavy meal, and it can go until 4:30pm; dinner is about 9pm. In all the big cities there is international cuisine, but Mexico has unique and unforgettable dishes including mole de guajalote, which is turkey in a chocolate and spice sauce; ceviche, raw, finely sliced fish marinated in lime juice with tomatoes; tamales, thin steamed pancakes with a filling that varies from state to state; and, of course, tortillas, thin, flat, corn pancakes in a hundred different guises—as tacos, filled with shredded meat, cheese, eggs, or vegetables and fried; as enchiladas, cooked in tomato sauce with a filling of meat or cheese; or just as a sort of edible spoon to scoop up stews like guisados. They turn up again in chalupas, with chicken, tomatoes, and lettuce, and in quesadillas, wrapped around