Good News for Air Travelers
The merger of Pan Am and National will result in increased airline competition and more efficient air service for the traveling public. That’s been the premise, and promise, of Pan Am’s case to merge with Miami-based National Airlines—a case that has been favorably viewed by the public, the media and the Civil Aeronautics Board.
The CAB’s favorable recommendation is now before President Carter for final review. Still undecided, however, is a key question that affects Florida directly—the future of the successful Miami-London (Heathrow) route pioneered by National employees.
The Board has said that the combined airline will continue to operate Miami-London while at the same time it will conduct a hearing on what airline should serve it on a permanent basis. If there is a hearing, Pan Am/National will be a strong contender, prepared to show it can provide the most benefits for Florida and the flying public. However, President Carter could decide to include the Miami-London route with the rest of National’s routes in the merger with Pan Am. That would eliminate the need for a separate hearing.
This booklet highlights Pan Am’s case for keeping the route and preserving Miami’s—and Florida’s—vital connection with London’s Heathrow Airport. It shows that a comparison with what any other U.S. airline could offer proves the Pan Am/National operation of Miami-London (Heathrow) brings the greatest benefits for Florida tourism, business travelers and Floridians bound for Europe and beyond.
Good News for Florida
We estimate that as a result of the merger, Pan Am and National as a merged carrier will transport 617,000 more passengers in and out of Florida than the individual airlines would carry—in the first year. Included will be 160,000 additional tourists visiting the state during the first year alone, providing a major boost to the economy.
If each of these additional tourists spends $500 in Florida— a conservative figure—that will add $80 million to the economy.
Employment: The merger means new jobs for Florida, particularly in the Miami area. Counting Pan Am’s new flight training