The Heart of the Issue:
Only Pan Am/National can continue to serve Heathrow
London, the crossroads of European travel, has two major airports— Heathrow and Gatwick. Florida travelers and businessmen clearly prefer the one National now serves from Miami— Heathrow. Its superior connections beyond London make it the premier airport in all Europe.
After the merger, only Pan Am/National can continue to fly from Miami into Heathrow. Under strict British policy, any new U.S.-flag airline must land at London’s less desirable airport—Gatwick.
That’s a fact. It’s one of the major considerations when comparing what other airlines can offer. We think it’s the heart of the issue. The British are trying to move air traffic to Gatwick because Heathrow is so popular it is very crowded. So the British government has made it clear all new carriers will serve London via Gatwick.
But with the Pan Am/National merger, there would be no discontinuation of present service by the same carrier, and since Pan Am already flies into Heathrow too, the merged carrier can continue flying into Heathrow.
But any other U.S.-flag airline taking over the Miami-London route would be considered a new carrier by the British, and forced to go to Gatwick. That would be to Florida’s disadvantage.
Heathrow is the funnel for more convenient flights to other cities in Europe and beyond, and from the European perspective, the gathering point to feed European travelers into Miami. About two-thirds of all the traffic moving between Miami and London either goes beyond London or feeds Miami from Central and South America and other U.S. cities. Heathrow is a major selling point in convenience.
Pan Am/National can offer Florida travelers via Heathrow service to European, Middle Eastern, Indian and Far Eastern cities. The only alternative from Florida is to fly on a non-U.S. airline, British Airways, beyond London.
And keep in mind that the vast connecting possibilities at Heathrow offered by the combined Pan Am/National are in addition to direct flights from Miami to Paris, Amsterdam, Frankfurt,