academy at Miami International Airport and the merger-related new employment, total new jobs are expected to reach 700-adding $24 million in new payrolls.
European Service: With the combined Pan Am/National serving European points from Miami and Tampa gateways, the Florida traveler can count on:
More available seats and cargo space
Lower fares than would be otherwise possible
Unparalleled single-carrier U.S.-flag service beyond London through the Heathrow Airport
An even-stronger Miami role as an international travel hub
Improved Service: Pan Am will put Boeing 747 aircraft on the London route that National now flies with the smaller DC-10s, providing a 43 percent increase in available seats. We’re prepared to offer additional 747 flights on weekends during peak seasons. And by 1981 we would offer two daily round trips.
Fares: As part of Pan Am’s innovative fare structure offered throughout its worldwide system, Floridians can choose between First Class, Clipper Class (Business Class) and Economy Class. In addition, we’ll offer Budget and Standby fares, along with our unique Around-the-World fares.
For Florida-bound Europeans, we’ll offer a flat fare for domestic travel anywhere within the United States on Pan Am/National’s system—part of our global fare promotion to encourage more foreign travel within the United States
The combination of National’s Miami-London route and Pan Am’s extensive Latin American routes creates an ideal opportunity for Florida to become the crossroads between Latin America and Europe. The merged carrier, with Miami-London (Heathrow), gives Florida the potential to become a hub for international travel to Europe from the Southern Hemisphere. To encourage a Florida stopover, the merged airline will introduce a special, innovative fare to make it considerably less expensive to travel between Latin America and Europe via Miami than to fly direct. We expect this will attract 26,000 new visitors to Florida in the first year.
These new tourists will pump an estimated $11.4 million into the Florida economy.