Glaciers, mighfy "frozen riversare never-to-be-forgotten sights.
Hydraulicking," to uncover gold-bearing gravels for giant dredges.
Business is good in Alaska. Commercial travelers have found Clipper travel the way to carry on business between the Territory and the United States.
"There are only 75,000 of us Alaskans,” a "sourdough” has said, "for 586,000 square miles of territory—one-fifth the continental U. S. But everyone in Alaska works.”
Alaskans do work, principally at fishing, mining, fur trapping, and farming. And a measure of their work is the value of their exports . . . $78,000,000 in a typical year, most of it to the U. S. from which most Alaskan imports come.
More salmon is canned in Ketchikan, Alaska’s southernmost city, it is claimed, than in any other city in the world. Halibut (some weighing 200 pounds), shrimp, and giant crabs also are found in abundance.
Fishery products valued at $63,439,593 were produced in 1941, with a canned salmon pack of 6,932,400 cases valued at $56,217,601 leading the list.
More than two and one-quarter million dollars’ worth of furs were shipped from Alaska in 1941, with muskrat, beaver and mink pelts ranking in that order in value.
Mineral resources, already exploited or known to exist include: tin, tungsten, nickel, chromite, quicksilver, and platinum (all doubly valuable in wartime), gold, silver, copper, zinc, iron, lead, bismuth, antimony, graphite, sulphur, marble, magnesite, asbestos and jade.
Large-scale farming is done in the Matanuska and Tanana Valleys, and in Fairbanks is the famous University of Alaska Experimental Farm.
You can watch giant gold dredges at work, see millions of acres of virgin timber reserves, thrill to the sight of the biggest salmon catches in the world—all when you fly to Alaska via Pan American.
woRLv mmn
ALASKA
*4 Clipper
NO MATTER WHAT YOUR ESSENTIAL REASONS for flying to Alaska, this great Territory offers many attractions worthy of your interest. A few of them are:
Fish and Wildlife. The greatest game preserve in the Western Hemisphere is Alaska. Total wildlife resources are worth more than $100,000,000. Brown bear, Kodiak bear, grizzlies, reindeer, moose are not uncommon. Many streams and lakes full of fish have yet to see an angler.
Sports. June 21 is the date of Fairbanks’ famed midnight baseball game. Winter carnivals are held in many localities.
Historic spots. Many landmarks remain to remind visitors of the days when Alaska was ruled by Russia. Stately, heavily carved totem poles stand in many places as Indian memorials. Remains of a civilization 20 centuries old have been discovered on the shores of the Arctic Ocean.
Not far from Fairbanks is mighty Mt. McKinley, "roof of the continent,” with its own National Park.
For camera fans, Alaska offers unlimited picture-taking possibilities. Remember, Alaska is the Land of the Northern Lights. For fares, schedules, etc., on Flying Clipper service to Alaska, see your Travel Agent or Pan American World Airways District Sales Office.
AGENTS FOR
Pa/V Amrrlca/v World A/rhavs
•a
e* >ntc0
•£¿>1 *7