you ve so man reasons
Mexico and Central America are served by scores of flights weekly. And, because
they whisk you to your destination at 5 and 6 miles a minute, you’re able to spend all but a
few hours of your vacation or business trip in the friendly land of fiestas South of the Border.
When you go by Clipper you not only arrive sooner, you’re more comfortable en route . . . cool in summer, warm in winter, with no sensation of height or speed.
The reason, of course, is that you fly above any of the rough weather that often makes prolonged surface travel unpleasant and fatiguing. You’ll find lounge chairs deeply cushioned, with reclining backs . . . and plenty of room to move about.
There’s no charge for the delicious hot Pan Am meals in either First-Class or Tourist service. Cabin attendants, only a buzzer away, stand by ready to bring a blanket or pillow, magazine, writing paper, etc. Whether you choose First-Class service or money-saving Tourist service you’ll enjoy the peace of mind that comes with flying the World’s Most Experienced Airline, Pan American —first in Latin America, first over the Pacific and the Atlantic, and first, ’Round The World.
But words alone can’t tell the full story. You have to fly Pan Am yourself.
You have to sit back completely relaxed while your Clipper does all the hurrying. Then you’ll understand why experienced travelers prefer Pan American.

Faster, more frequent service
The Pan American World Airways System offers far more service to Mexico and Central America than any other airline system. Faster service, too . . . no-change-of-plane flights from the U. S. A. to principal cities, including non-stop flights to Mexico City, Guatemala City and Panama City.
More gateways— alternate routes
Pan Am offers you a choice of many different routes to Mexico and Central America. Which you select depends on the Gateway you prefer. And that in turn depends on whether or not you want to fly direct, go via the popular Caribbean area or head for South America and include Mexico and Central America en route. Pan Am System Gateways to Mexico and Central America include New York, Washington, and Miami on the East Coast . . . Chicago in the Midwest . . . New Orleans, Houston and Brownsville on the Gulf ... San Francisco and Los Angeles on the West Coast.
First Class service
First Class service, at regular fares, features extra attendants and fewer passengers . . . maximum room and comfort per passenger . . . superb meals. And beyond Mexico and Central America, you can travel First Class via through service — and with stop-over routings at your option — to many Caribbean and South American points.
Tourist service
Money-saving Tourist service brings international travel within reach of anyone’s budget . . . yet features some of the newest and finest equipment available. You enjoy delicious complimentary meals and many other travel comforts, including bar service at nominal charge. Tourist service is also available to the Caribbean area and South America.
Try a Pan Am Holiday
Here’s a convenient, inexpensive way to travel South of the Border. You’ll enjoy pre-arranged itineraries, sight-seeing and excellent hotels . . . travel alone or with a congenial group . . . and know what everything will cost before you start. Some Pan Am Holidays concentrate on Mexico alone; some include one or more Central American countries; others also include the West Indies or South America. Any Pan Am Holiday can be adapted to your particular interests.