Continue Round South America
For surprisingly small additional cost you can extend your Mexico and Central American trip to include some of the exciting cities along the Spanish Main. Considering the savings of round trip fares and new “30%-off” excursion fares, you can even extend your trip all the way Round South America. Only Pan American on the east coast and Panagra on the west coast can fly you clear Round South America on radar equipped DC-7B’s, world’s finest over-ocean airliners.
ifr You could spend all your time in Mexico City.
It’s 7,000 feet high, spring-like all year round, and there’s much to see. Start with the National Museum. Or perhaps the great Cathedral, the oldest church in all the Americas. Study the frescoes by Riviera and Orozco. Visit Chapultepec Park, with its zoo, lake and hilltop castle of Maximilian and Carlotta. Sample the sophisticated clubs, smart shops and native markets.
Ride out to the famed Guadalupe shrine and see for yourself
the miraculous painting on the rough Indian cloak that’s over 400 years
old. Save time for Xochilmilco’s Floating Gardens and flowery canals.
Snow-covered Popocatapetl. Taxco’s silver . . . red tile roofs
and cobblestone streets. Cuernavaca, fashionable as a resort since the
days of Cortes. Visit Yucatan for a closeup of what remains
of the fabulous Mayans. And lovely Acapulco is only an hour by air
from Mexico City. Head there to swim, fish or laze in the sun and to
dance, Latin-style, on moonlit patios overlooking the sea.
Guatemala offers spectacular scenery like breathtaking Lake Atitlan, a mile above the sea, and colorful sights such as Chichicastenango, the most photographed native market in the world.
Visit Antigua. It’s like a glimpse into Spanish yesteryears, with its monasteries and colonial homes, its old palace and university.
Your Clipper stop is Guatemala City, a small, clean, cosmopolitan capital, with lovely parks and gardens, an interesting Central Market near the Cathedral and an.unbelievably white church, Santo Domingo.
Many ways you can save
In addition to low-cost Tourist-fare service and cost-inclusive Pan Am Holidays, there are other ways you can save when you fly to Mexico and Central America with the Pan American System.
The Family Pare Plan, for example. It permits members of your family to travel at reduced fares in some areas during certain days of the week. Be sure to ask about it. Sizable savings can result.
Excursion Fares are another way you can often save with Pan Am. Be sure to ask if any are in effect in the Mexico-Central America area at the time you’ll be traveling.
Specially-Constructed Circle Trips also offer some remarkable savings throughout Central America and the Caribbean. See next paragraph.
Mid-Americas Circle trips
On your Central America trip you can, if you wish, include the fabulous Spanish Main and sample the exciting life of the Caribbean because of Pan Am’s exciting and unique Mid-Americas Circle. You can travel in a circle in either direction and stop en route as often as you please.
“New Horizons” — perfect guide
This 576-page book covers all of Latin America . . . over 1,000 places Round The World . . . helps you plan, tells what to see, wear, bring back . . . and where to stay, dine, etc. This best seller is included in the Travel Kit for State Department personnel and costs only $1.00 U.S. at Travel Agencies and PAA offices.
You’ll say the rest of Central America is varied, colorful, scenic.
El Salvador, for example, boasts a year-round temperature in the 70’s for its capital, San Salvador . . . also fine beaches . . . an active volcano, Izalco, so bright that ships at sea use it as a lighthouse . . . and Ilobasco, where you’ll shop for figurines the size of grains of rice. Costa Rica is a sparkling land of modern schools, colorful customs and intricately painted oxcarts, of brightly shawled natives, mounted milkmen and a National Theatre built of marble and gold. Honduras is very air-minded, mostly because of its rugged terrain. Its capital, Tegucigalpa, for example, you’ll find high in the mountains with streets picturesquely set at various levels. Enjoy magnificent year-round hunting and fishing without a license, visit the mahogany forests . . . Copan, the ancient Mayan City . . . and the 2-million-dollar-a-year Rosario silver mines.
Nicaragua’s capital, Managua, nestles beside a lake.
This city’s modern well-planned look is due to its having been almost completely rebuilt in the past 25 years. You can get around by efficient cabs or by colorful horse-drawn surreys. Try the weekend bullfights, and the health-giving baths at Tipitapa, where in 1927 the U.S.A. peace pact was signed. Panama, the Crossroads' of the World, connecting the Americas, combines old world charm with modern luxury hotels and gay all-night clubs. You’ll visit churches like San Jose, renowned for its gold altar, try the deep sea fishing, explore the Canal and shop for freeport bargains in Panama City and cosmopolitan Colon.
$200 worth if you’re out of the U.S. 2 to 12 days, allowable once a month. $300 more (for a total of $500) if you’re gone more than 12 days, allowable once in 6 months. You may also ship back duty free as many individual gifts valued under $10 as you like — and they won’t count against your duty free allowance. Many use Air Parcel Post for this purpose because it’s quick, easy, sure.
Ship cargo by air, too
Pan American and its associate airlines fly more cargo to more points in Central and South America than all other air-carriers combined. All flights carry cargo and there are allcargo airfreighters from New York, Miami and New Orleans.
Go Now
You can pay 10% down on the cost of your trip and spread the balance over as long as 20 months by using Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan. For thousands of people this Plan has meant that travel dreams could come true now instead of being postponed indefinitely. Any authorized Travel Agent or PAA office can handle it for you.
Why is Pan Am so popular?
Some say it’s the frequent schedules to all 6 continents, the varied routings, the alternate gateways or choice of services. But probably more important are Pan Am’s experience and American know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb service. People naturally prefer to travel with the leading carrier that has flown more than 17 million passengers over a billion miles and carries more passengers to and from the United States than any other airline.
To re-live your trip years to come, be sure to take your camera along