CGC
. i°. iM. >°. iV. ,'•>.	,'J, Av./Vy yV^^./V^ï-Vi'VV'./VV'w'V'
CONDITIONS AND DETAILS REGARDING THE EUROPEAN LAND ARRANGEMENTS
The rates quoted are based on DELUXE CLASS travel, FIRST CLASS travel, and SPECIAL CLASS travel and include the following:
TRANSPORTATION IN EUROPE: (for DELUXE CLASS tours): by first class rail, except on local journeys in Scandinavia where the highest available class will be used; first class on local and cross channel steamers; by best available motorcoach where indicated; with seat reservations wherever possible and with reserved cabins for overnight steamers.
(for FIRST CLASS tours); by first class rail in Italy, Spain and Portugal by second class rail for the balance of the continent, and by third class rail in Great Britain; by first class on local and cross channel steamers; by best available motorcoach where indicated; with seat reservations wherever possible and with reserved cabin accommodation for overnight steamers.
(for SPECIAL CLASS tours); by first class rail in Spain and Portugal, by second class rail for the balance of the continent, and by third class rail in Great Britain and Ireland; by first class on local and cross channel steamers; by best available motorcoach where indicated; with seat reservations wherever possible and with reserved cabin accommodation for overnight steamers. AIR TRAVEL is provided for some of the journeys in Spain and Portugal as indicated. HOTELS: (DELUXE CLASS travel); accommodations will consist of twin-bedded rooms with private bath at first class hotels as per separate list. Single room accommodation at additional cost.
(First CLASS travel): accommodations will consist of twin-bedded rooms with private bath at deluxe and best possible hotels, as per separate list of hotels. Single room accommodation at additional cost.
(SPECIAL CLASS travel): accommodations will consist of twin-bedded rooms with running water at medium grade hotels, as per separate list of hotels. Single room accommodation at additional cost.
MEALS: (DELUXE AND FIRST CLASS travel): three meals per day will be included, consisting of continental breakfasts and table d’hote luncheons and dinners, except while traveling and in London, Paris and Madrid where breakfast will be the only meal provided.
(SPECIAL travel): continental breakfast will be the only meal provided throughout the tours except in Holland where one main meal will be included and in Portugal where all meals are included.
GRATUITIES: Tips to hotel staff are included as per percentage system in force at the various hotels.
TAXES: As imposed by government and municipal authorities included. SIGHTSEEING: Comprehensive tours as indicated in the various programs are included, by motorcoach, lake steamers mountain railway, etc., subject to operation, as some motorcoach excursions do noi operate daily throughout the year. Tours and excursions by private car will be arranged at extra cost.
GUIDES AND ENTRANCE FEES: Included as per local custom.
TRANSFERS: Transfers of passengers are included between railway stations, air terminals, and hotels and vice versa, including the handling of two average sized pieces of hand baggage.
NOT INCLUDED: Passport and visa fees, personal items such as wines, mineral waters, laundry, etc. Drinks and dishes not included on the table d’hote menus, meals other than those specified above as being included, meals en route, fees and tips to porters, most of transfers between air fields and city airline terminals, baggage insurance, excess baggage.
CONDITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITY:
Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. in arranging travel accommodations or in rendering other service in connection therewith does so as agent for the individual desiring such travel accommodations upon, the express condition and agreement that it shall not be liable for any injury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity or expense arising from the use of any travel facilities, accommodations or services provided in connection with such individual’s travel plan, nor for any infury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity or expense arising from strikes, war, weather, quarantines, sickness, government restrictions or regulations, or from any act or omission of any individual, firm or corporation furnishing transportation, sightseeing, hotel accommodations or any other services in connection with such travel plan, or for any otFer cause whatsoever in connection therewith, nor for any additional cost or expense due to disruption or change of advertised schedules, rates or services, or for any other cause beyond its own control. All travel facilities, accommodations and services are subject to the laws of the respective countries involved in the travel plan and dll claims for refunds for unusual travel facilities, accommodations, services or otherwise must be made by the individual for whom the travel plan is prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the individual, firm or corporation furnishing such travel facilities, accommodations or services, and the liability of any such individual, firm or corporation is limited in accordance with the terms of their contracts. All costs, rates, •tariffs and other charges are commuted on the present value of foreign currencies as related to dollars of the United States of America (or dollars of the Dominion of Canada if the facilities of such travel blast are received and paid for in a Canadian office of Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc.) and accordingly are subject to adjustment at any time without prior notice. The acceptance of any travel plan or other service by any individual shall be deemed to constitute an acceptance of this limitation of liability or responsibility.—Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc.
Pan American World Airways System is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft, The passenger ticket in use by Pan American World Airways Systemt when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
FOR RESERVATIONS CONSULT
Printed in U. S. A
: : :
'VVVVVV^
■ _>. ./»- ' * \ ■ 1 ' ■ ■ ■ . • -, ' . • ’ ,.’ . ' , , ■ ■

Exciting Vacations in Europe
with
•Ask. Mr. Foster Travel Service
Air Zravel Via
Pam /Imlrlcam World Airways
Unless you’ve checked into travel costs recently, you’ll be amazed at how little a trip to Europe now costs . . . And when you read through these exciting, carefully planned itineraries, you’ll marvel at how you can include so much in even a few weeks. Going by air you spend very little of your precious time getting there, and have days more to enjoy the pleasures of Europe, the real purpose of your trip.
You have a choice of two fine Clipper services. The de luxe "President” services use the famous, roomy double-decked "strato” Clippers complete with downstairs club lounge, complimentary cocktails, wines, liquors, overnight bag for each passenger — all the extras that mean you’re traveling the best.
In fact, you’ll probably wish your flight were longer once you see how much fun it is ■— cruising along at five miles a minute in the smooth upper air "above the weather”. You’ll be impressed with the comfort and the service, too — things that make traveling Pan American so pleasant.
Then there’s the popular new "Rainbow” Clipper Tourist Service in new Douglas Super-6 Clippers, comfortable, fast and flight proven. Fewer frills but with reclining seats, complimentary meals, efficient attendants and the same high standards of engineering.
There’s a friendly, relaxed atmosphere aboard these giant dependable Clippers and a peace of mind in knowing you’re flying the World’s Most Experienced Airline.
You'll Be Glad You Went By Clipper
These independent tours are pre-arranged by experts and start any day, you wish; all reservations are assured; you know the exact cost in advance; transportation is by the most direct and advisable routes with no timetable problems; meeting and transfer service at each point eliminates any language difficulties, facilitates custom inspection and other details; carefully planned sightseeing leaves plenty of free time for personal activities; advice and assistance of our local representative is always available; hotels are carefully selected.
/OSLO
ft
f NORTH *	f
S6A H
•f.) J
Af^—	I
Courteous, Efficient Clipper Service
ATLANTIC
OCEAN
»	.	. vtA	t
V f . i
^ StomÒ S*C>V '
AMSTERDAM
COLOGNE
O

•••