Tour
1st Day Leave NEW YORK on a Pan American "Clipper”, to enjoy a comfortable flight on the "World's Most Experienced Airline.”
ENGLAND
2nd Day LONDON, OXFORD, SHAKESPEARE COUNTRY — A complete tour of the world’s greatest city, including the Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace, the Changing of the Guard, St. Paul’s Cathedral, the Tower of London, and numerous other historic land-marks, occupies the day following arrival. One day is spent motoring through the English countryside via the lovely Thames Valley, and Oxford, to Stratford-on-Avon, Shottery (site of Anne Hathaway’s Cottage), and Warwick Castle.
3rd Day 4th Day 5th Day 6th Day
///

HOLLAND
7th Day
stSS
Palace de Versailles
THE HAGUE — By day-time cross channel steamer via Hook-of-Holland. Complete sightseeing of The Hague including Picture Gallery, Peace Palace, and the celebrated beach resort of Scheveningen.
8th Day AMSTERDAM — Comprehensive sightseeing of City, visiting Rijksmuseum, diamond cutting factory, etc. Steamer side trip to Volendam and the Isle of Marken with its peasants still wearing their traditional costumes.
BELGIUM
9th Day BRUSSELS — Southward by forenoon train via the great
1 Oth Day port of Antwerp to Brussels, the charming Belgian capital.
See the Tir National, King’s Palace, Ancient Guild Houses, Manneken Fountain, Palace of Justice, and numerous other points of interest in the attractive city.
FRANCE
llth Day PARIS, VERSAILLES — By forenoon train from Brus-
12th Day sels. A whole day’s sightseeing of gay, glamorous Paris,
13th Day including the Arch of Triumph, Champs Elysees, Eiffel
14th Day Tower, Napoleon’s Tomb, Montmartre, Notre Dame and the Latin Quarter, is followed by a special excursion to Versailles, with its famed Hall of Mirrors, and wonderful parks.
15th Day Leave PARIS on a Pan American "Clipper.”
16th Day Arrive NEW YORK — at International Airport.
RATES
For the De Luxe category — $286.00 per person For the First Class category — $229.00 per person For the Special category — $168.00 per person
I


•>**»
Shakespeare Memorial Theatre
Tour
Zke
M Season Splendor
1st Day Leave NEW YORK on a Pan American "Clipper”, to enjoy a comfortable flight on the "World’s Most Experienced Airline.”
FRANCE
2nd Day PARIS -— Your sojourn in ever-enchanting Paris includes 3rd Day a whole day sightseeing, covering the Arch of Triumph, 4th Day Eiffel Tower, Champs Elysees, Napoleon’s Tomb, Notre 5th Day Dame, Montmartre, the Latin Quarter, etc., and a special excursion to magnificent Versailles, with its famed Hall of Mirrors, and wonderful gardens and parks.
SWITZERLAND
6th Day LUCERNE — By fast train through Basel to this unfor-7th Day gettably beautiful Swiss resort. Steamer trip to Lake of Lucerne, and ascent by cog-wheel railway of the Pilatus or Rigi Mountains, affording superb Alpine panoramas.
8th Day MONTREUX AND GENEVA — By day train through 9th Day Interlaken and over the scenic "Golden Pass” route; visit famed Chillon Castle and tour Geneva, seeing the Reformation Monument, League of Nations Building, Red Cross Headquarters, etc.
FRANCE
20th Day NICE — By motorcoach along the Italian and French
21st Day Riviera to Nice, where your stay includes a drive over the Grande Corniche to Monte Carlo.
SPAIN
22nd Day BARCELONA — By plane to Barcelona, Spain’s biggest
23rd Day port. Visit the Cathedral, Town Hall, and drive through the principal boulevards.
24th Day MADRID — The fascinating capital of Spain; touring
25th Day features the Prado, Columbus Monument, Goya street,
26th Day Retiro Park, Bull Ring and many other attractions. Excursion to Toledo or Escorial optional.
PORTUGAL
27th Day LISBON -— Capital of Portugal, and one of Europe’s
28th Day most picturesque cities. Sightseeing includes a drive to the famous Jeronimo Monastery by private automobile. Half day excursion to exclusive Estoril. Optional side trip to the Shrine of Fatima.
	29th Day Leave Lisbon by Pan American "Clipper.” 30th Day Arrive New York at International Airport.
-r«	RATES For the De Luxe category — $651.00 per person For the First Class category — $565.00 per person For the Special category — $356.00 per person
	
French Riviera
ITALY
10th Day STRESA—Delightfully situated on Lake Maggiore; your day of leisure is best used for a short excursion to the Borromean Islands.
11th Day VENICE — Sightseeing here is done partly on foot and 12th Day partly by gondola; see the Doges’ Palace, St. Mark’s, Bridge of Sighs, Rialto, etc.
13th Day FLORENCE — By express train or motorcoach; sightsee-14th Day ing includes the Pitti Palace, Medici Chapels, Basilica of San Lorenzo, Cathedral and Baptistry, etc.
15th Day ROME — Complete sightseeing will include St. Peter’s, 16th Day the Vatican with its Museum, Art Gallery, and incompar-17th Day able Sixtine Chapel, the Roman Forum, Arch of Con-18th Day stantine, Coliseum, Appian Way, Catacombs, and innumerable other landmarks of the Eternal City.
19th Day GENOA — By fast day train through Pisa to the birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
E fe-
ll
l ìli
