GETTING AROUND WITH PAN AM
This specially designed Pan Am Map-Guide is another traveler's help for you—our passengers. It's been designed to give you a quick, comprehensive plan of the heart of the city. It also highlights the principal attractions, and there's an index for ready reference.
Our Pan Am's World Map-Guides are only one way we set out to give you more help when you get there. There are lots of others.
We have a highly trained English-speaking staff available at more than 200 offices around the globe. When you land and want advice you'll find they're at the airport.
So is our Consumer Action team. These wonder workers are Pan Am's practical problem solvers when hotel reservations go awry or other problems come up. If, as a Pan Am passenger, you run into unexpected problems just ask for Consumer Action and they'll take action, on-the-spot.
OTHER WAYS THAT PAN AM CAN HELP We do more for our passengers. For example, we offer the most extensive library of travel advice available anywhere in the world today. This map is one example. There are many others. When you're in Sydney, you may wish to use Pan Am's Total Travel Planner: The Real Pacific: Hawaii to Hong Kong and Pan Am's World: Shopping in the Pacific. If you plan to take in Europe other Pan Am publications may be useful: Hidden Europe:Fiy To it. Drive Through it; and Pan Am's World: Shopping in Europe. Drop in at the Pan Am offices in Sydney for books, booklets, guides and details of other services. The offices are at Elizabeth Street and Martin Place (tel: 25-7111). While this is a city map you'll get more enjoyment out of your visit if you also see some of the surrounding countryside. Stop by Pan Am's World Rent-A-Car at 85 William Street (tel: 31-6621) or at the airport (tel: 667-1752).
VITAL STATISTICS
Size:	50 miles of coastline and 30 miles inland
to "the Blue Mountains.
Population: 2,750,000
Currency: The Australian dollar, divided into 100 cents. A$ 1 = US$1.40.
Climate:	Extremely mild and sunny (average 342
days of sun per year). Seasons are reversed from US—North American winter is Australian summer.
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS New Year's Day, 1 Jan Australia Day, 31 Jan Good Friday Easter Monday Anzac Day, 25 Apr Queen's Birthday, (varies annually)
Bank Holiday, 1st Mon in Aug Eight-Hour Day, 1st Mon in Oct Christmas Day, 25 Dec Boxing Day, 26 Dec
AIRPORT INFORMATION Kingsford Smith Airport Visas are required for most visitors except British subjects. Smallpox vaccination certificate. Customs and immigration regulations are strict and detailed—check with the Australian Tourist Office before leaving. You can bring into Australia duty free: 400 cigarettes or 500 gm tobacco and cigars; ¿gallon of liquor (including beer and wine). These items must be declared. There are also currency import and export regulations.
Duty-free shop in airport terminal and in Sydney at 4 Castlereagh Street.
GETTING INTO TOWN
Kingsford Smith Airport is six miles from Sydney. There is no city terminal for international flights so passengers leaving Australia by air have to go straight to the airport. Each airline has a city terminal for domestic flights.
Taxis
Taxis into the city cost about A$ 1.50. Do not tip the driver. Buses
Bus into the center of the city costs about A$0.50.
LANDMARKS
The main landmarks on this map are illustrated with a grid reference for speedy identification.
El Alamein (G7)
A large modern fountain in an open intersection in the King's Cross area.
Art Gallery of New South Wales (F5)
Houses a fine collection of Australian and European art.
Australia Square Building (E3)
Australia's tallest building, 48 stories high. At the top is an observation deck and revolving restaurant.
Fort Denison (C7)
On an island. The fort was completed in 1857. Government House (D5)
Official residence of the Governor of New South Wales. Situated in the Royal Botanic Gardens.
Parliament House (F4)
The central portion is part of the old-time hospital built in 1811—16. But there have been many additions since the State Legislature moved here in 1829.
St James's Church (G4)
Dating from 1819 and designed by a famous convict/architect, this is a beautifully proportioned Georgian building.
Sydney Harbour Bridge (B4)
Great steel bridge one mile long, connecting Sydney to the northern suburbs. Built in 1932.
Sydney Opera House (C5)
Spectacular and controversial modern building projecting into the harbor. Started in 1959 and opened in 1973.
ACCOMMODATIONS
Pan Am will book your hotel in advance through any office. If you do arrive without booking, do not worry—there are several hundred licensed hotels in Sydney and its suburbs and many modern motels on the approaches to the city. The New South Wales Government Tourist Bureau (F3) will make reservations for visitors in hotels, motels and guest houses. There are many furnished apartments and holiday cottages available for rent on a weekly basis (through estate agents). There are over 70 Youth Hostels in the country. For details, check with the Tourist Bureau. Some recommended hotels include:
Expensive
Carlton Rex, 56 Castlereagh Street (F4)
Chevron, 81 Macleay Street, Potts Point (G7)
Gazebo Motor Inn, 2 Elizabeth Bay Road (G7) Menzies Sydney. 14 Carrington Street (F3) Wentworth, 61 Phillip Street (E4)
Wynyard TraveLodge, 9 York Street (G3)
Medium
Crest, Corner of Victoria Street and Darlinghurst Road, King's Cross (H6)
Koala Motor Inn, Corner of Oxford, Riley and Pelican Streets (14)
Rushcutter TraveLodge, 110 Bayswater Road, Rushcutters Bay (H7)
Top of the Cross TraveLodge, 110 Darlinghurst Road, King's Cross (H6)
Inexpensive
Florida Motor Lodge, 4 Roslyn Gardens, King's Cross (H7)
Manhattan Private Hotel, Greenknowe Avenue, Potts Point (G7)
TRANSPORTATION
Taxis
Found at stands or can be flagged anywhere in the city. Rates are low and tipping is not expected. Some numbers to call taxis: 69-0399; 2-0918; 31 -0488;
31 -0422.
Buses
There are single and double-decker buses. Pay the driver or conductor in single-deckers; in double-deckers, pay the conductor. Buses run from 4am to 11:30pm, although service is less frequent on weekends. Bus stops are marked by yellow painted posts.
Subway
The subway system is small (only two lines) but efficient. The City-Circle line stops near all the main shops, hotels and department stores. On the subway service is frequent and inexpensive from Central, Museum, Town Hall, St James, Wynyard and Circular Quay subway stations.
Ferry and Hydrofoil
Frequent ferry service during the day from Circular Quay (D4) to Manly, Taronga Park Zoo, Neutral Bay, Mosman and Milson's Point. There is a fast hydrofoil service to Manly from Circular Quay.
Car Rental
Sydney is a good place to rent a car. Under Other Ways that Pan Am Can Help, you'll find information about Pan Am's own Rent-a-Car facilities. The tourist needs a driver's license from his own country. Traffic moves on the left.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Sydney's restaurants have improved dramatically in the last few years. Chinese, Japanese and Indian foods are now well-represented. The average price for a three-course meal for two, including liquor, is about A$12—15; portions are likely to be large. Atypical meal
would include: an appetizer (usually seafood); main course (beef and lamb are excellent), with a salad durinc or after; dessert, cheese and coffee. Specialties in Sydney are: oysters and all seafood (fresh daily) and the Carpet Bag steak (a large, thick steak with a bed of oysters in the center).
Some of the better restaurants are:
The Summit. Australia Square Tower (E3) (tel: 279-777); for a remarkable, revolving view.
Caprice, Sunderland Avenue, Rose Bay (tel:
371 -6799); for a romantic evening overlooking the water.
French Restaurant, 379a Bourke Street (H5) (tel:
313-	605); be serenaded by wandering musicians—and French specialties.
Le Trianon, 29 Challis Avenue, Pott's Point (F7) (tel: 385-1353); decorated in Louis XIV style; good French 1 food.
La Causerie, 5 Roslyn Street, King's Cross (H7) (tel: 358-6993); intimate and elegant.
Garden Court, Wentworth Hotel, Phillip Street (E4) (tel: 203-70); one of Sydney's top restaurants. Flanagan's, 92 Pitt Street (F3) (tel: 255-431); for the best of Sydney's seafood.
Doyle's, 11 Marine Parade, Watson's Bay (tel: 337-2007); excellent seafood. Also at Rose Bay. Beppi's, Yurong and Stanley Streets (H4) (tel:
314-	558); authentic regional Italian food.
Dixon, 951 Dixon Street (12) (tel: 211-1062); one of the better Chinese restaurants.
Texas Tavern Hotel, 44 Macleay Street, Pott's Point (G7) (tel: 358-1211); three American-style eateries. Slamat Makan. 362 Victoria Street (H6) (tel: 317-905); one of the best Indonesian restaurants in Sydney.
Quick Eating
The lunchtime scene is a bit like the United States'—lots of hamburgers and Kentucky Fried Chicken. But there is also the English influence—fish and chips and pub lunches. There are wine and oyster bars, too.
DRINKING TIPS
Public bars close at 10pm. Clubs, hotel residents and diners are not subject to the licensing laws. Australian wines are inexpensive and good by any standards. Local beer is inexpensive, good and strong. Whisky and other, spirits cost about A 300.
All the big hotels have bars and there are also public saloon bars all over the city, especially in the King's Cross area. Women in Australia do not usually go into public bars.
ENTERTAINMENT
For information on all events, see The Sydney Tourist Guide or This Week in Sydney, found free in hotels.
Concerts and Opera
Sydney Symphony Orchestra at the Town Hall (H3). Recitals at the Conservatorium in the Royal Botanic Gardens (E5).
Movie Theaters
There are at least 20 movie theaters in the central area of Sydney. Many are in the King's Cross area (H6).
Night Spots
Many are in the late-night area of King's Cross. They include:
Comedy, Pitt Street (G3), a theater-restaurant;
Silver Spade, Chevron Hotel, Macleay Street, Pott's Point (G7), dinner-dancing and international floor show;
Chequers, Goulburn Street (13), discothèque.
Sydney is an outdoor city and there are 34 beaches around, including Bondi, Palm Beach, Manly and Cronulla. There is water-skiing at Narabeen Lakes and on Manly Reservoir; horse-racing at Randwick, Rosehill, Canterbury and Warwick Farm; cricket at Sydney Cricket Ground.
SHOPPING
Shopping hours are 9-5:30 on weekdays and 9-noon on Saturdays. There are shops and department stores throughout the downtown area but the main shopping streets are George Street (G3), Castlereagh Street (H5), Elizabeth Street lH4 and King Street (F3). The best department stores are: Farmers. Market Street (G3) ; David Jones, (women) Elizabeth Street (G4) and (men) Market Street (G3). At Paddington Village (J7), there are boutiques and handicraft shops. Rome Street (F3) has boutiques and outdoor cafés.
For souvenirs and native crafts, try: Aladdin's, 45a Elizabeth Bay Road (G7) ; Aborigine Art Center, 400 Kent Street (B7) ; Church Missionary Showroom,
511 Kent Street (B7) and A Newell, 37 Rome Street (F3) for polished gems.
Best buys include opals, sheepskins and kangaroo coats, aborigine wood carvings and bark paintings, toy koala bears.
Markets
Paddy's Market, Haymarket (12 and 3) for bric-a- brae, fruit, animals, vegetables etc. Open all day Friday.
MUSEUMS AND ART GALLERIES
Art Gallery of New South Wales, Domain Park (F5). Open Mon—Sat, 10—5; Thurs 10—10; Sun 12—5.
European and Australian art; aboriginal section containing unique collection of Melville Island graveposts.
Australian Museum, corner of College and William Streets (H4).
Open Sun, Mon, noon—5; Tues, Sat and public holidays 10-5; Sun 2-5.
Australia's oldest museum. Sections on aborigine and Pacific cultures and fossil, mineral and ethnographic displays.
Geological and Mining Museum, 36 George Street North (C3). Geological and fossil specimens.
Open Mon—Fri, 9:30—5; Sat 11—4; Sun 2—5.
Mitchell and Dixon Libraries, in Library of New South Wales (F4).
Open Mon—Sat, 10—10; Sun, public holidays 2—6. Paintings, portraits, rare historical documents.
Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences, Harris Street (A9).
Open Mon—Sat, 10—4:45; Sun, 12:45—4:45.
OTHER PLACES OF INTEREST
Conservatorium of Music, Botanic Gardens (E5). Formerly the Government House stables.
Elizabeth Bay House, Onslow Avenue, Elizabeth Bay (G7). A fi ne two-story Regency colonial mansion.
Fort Denison (C7).
A permit is required to visit. Ask at the Maritime Services Building on Circular Quay.
General Post Office (F3)
Begun in 1865. A monumental example of the Renaissance-inspired architecture of the period.
Greenway's Obelisk (E4)
From which the colony's roads were once measured.
In Obelisk Park.
Old Gaol (15)
Now part of East Sydney Technical College,
Darlinghurst. An austere collection of buildings enclosed by a massive wall.
Old Mint (F4)
Built in 1811 as part of the Old Rum Hospital, the building at one time was a branch of the Royal Mint.
Tarpeian Way (D4)
A delightful cliff-top walk and a fine point for seeing the new Opera House.
Sydney Suburbs Taronga Park Zoo
Animals from many countries but especially Australia: platypus, koalas, kangaroos in a harborside setting.
Marineland Aquarium
Sharks and other exotic Australian fish. At Manly.
Out of Town
Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park 15 miles north of Sydney. Bushland and wildlife sanctuary which can be reached by regular bus or bus tours.
Royal National Park
20 miles south of Sydney. Bushland, surfing beach and museum. Regular bus or bus tours.
Pennant Hills Kangaroo and Koala Farm Fifteen miles from Sydney. Animals in a natural setting. Reached by tour buses.
Blue Mountains
Day excursion from Sydney; 545 square miles of streams, waterfalls, lush vegetation, rocks in fantastic shapes and colors; birds.
Hawkesbury River
Thirty miles north of Sydney. Noted for its fjord-like inlets, rugged headlands, bushland area full of animals-and birds.
Botany Bay
Scene of Captain Cook's landing.
Sheep Station Visits
Jolly Swagman Aerial Tours organized by Australian air lines and bus companies. See the sheep country from the air and join in some typical sheep-station activities (boomerang-throwing exhibitions and barbecue lunches).
USEFULTIPS
Tipping
Airport porters: Usually no tip.
Shipping and rail terminal porters: Posted charges. Hotel porters: 10—20 cents.
Waiters: 10%.
Taxi drivers: Tips are welcome but not strictly essential.
Banks
Hours are 10—3, Mon-Thur; 10—5 Fri.
Health
Sydney Hospital (tel: 282-291) and numerous other major hospitals.
Time
Sydney is 18 hours ahead of US Pacific Coast Standard Time. There are three time zones within Australia.
Electricity
Usual current is 220—240 volts, 50-cycle AC; some DC in country areas.
Telephones Local calls cost A 50.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION For further information about accommodations, tours, etc., contact the Department of Tourist Activities at Kingsford Smith Air Terminal, Circular Quay, Wharf No 7, Woolloomooloo, or the New South Wales Government Tourist Bureau, Challis House, 8 Martin Place (tel: 2-0136).
Pan Am offices in Sydney are at Pan Am Corner, Elizabeth Street at Martin Place (F4) (tel: 282-252 and 257-111) and the airport passenger terminal. Elsewhere in Australia: Perth: at the airport and also 104 St George's Terrace (tel: 212-719); Melbourne: 223 Collins Street (tel: 654-4488) and the airport passenger terminal; Canberra: 28-36 Ainsline Avenue (tel: 439-195); Adelaide: Aston House, 17 Leigh Street (tel: 612-821).
Other useful addresses:
US Consulate: 37-49 Pitt Street (F3)
American Express: AWA Building, 47 York Street (D3)
TOURS ON TAPE-TRAVEL	A TERRIFIC WAY TO
Here's a delightfully different traveler's aid — Tours on Tape, handy little cassettes that fit any machine and explain all the wonderful sights you're going to see. They're a big help in planning your trip and are an ideal talking guide while you're sightseeing. There are walking tours, driving tours, city tours and country tours. The	
tapes cost just $4.95	Locations covered are :
London	Hong Kong/Kowloon
English Countryside	Tokyo
Paris	El Morro Fortress
Versailles/	(also available in
Fontainebleau	Spanish)
Rome	Puerto Rico
Amsterdam	(also available in
Brussels	Spanish)
Frankfurt/Heidelberg	New York City —
Berlin (also available	5 Tours*
in German)	New York City*
Hawaii	Washington, DC* San Francisco*
'Also available in Spanish, French, German and	
Italian.	
To get these wonderful guides, stop in at any Pan Am Office or return the order form with this map.	