PAA gr- SOUTH OF THE STATES IT'S PAN AMERICAN PAA
HAVANA Americas”
ONLY 2y4 HOURS FROM MIAMI
$28.00 ONE WAY—$50.00 ROUND TRIP
The world’s largest flying boats—the new ‘‘clipper ships” of the air —carrying 44 passengers, fly daily between Miami and Havana on convenient, fast schedules, maintained with clock-like precision, allowing smart travelers maximum time for the enjoyment of Havana’s alluring, foreign atmosphere. Low rates make commuting possible at a great saving of both time and money.
The Flight—Passengers on these mammoth greyhounds of the air loll back in drowsy down-upholstered chairs, stroll into the smoking room for cooling drinks and refreshments served by jaunty stewards,-walk forward to the lounge for bridge or backgammon;always watching through spacious windows the scenic splendor of vast everglades, sparkling, transparent waters scattered with verdant keys, the snakelike overseas railroad. Finally, after two short hours of colorful scenery they circle the glistening spires and balconied streets of old Havana where the airliner glides into Havana Harbor past Old Moro Castle, docking just a few minutes from the Prado.
Attentive stewards, beautifully appointed airliners, proven dependability, speed with comfort, and low rates make Pan American Airways the most popular mode of travel between Miami and Havana.
kl A CC All "Little England of the West"
JUST 2 HOURS FROM MIAMI
$25.00 ONE WAY—$43.00 ROUND TRIP
Giant, luxurious flying boats, carrying 22 passengers, fly daily between these distinctly different resort cities during the winter season, January 1 to April 30. Discriminating travelers use this service because they have experienced its proven security. They appreciate its low rates, and they are acquainted with its attentive service. Air transportation ‘‘The Pan American Way” is in exact keeping with their ideals of travel, which are: speed, comfort, and dependability. After just two hours of gorgeous flight over pinkish coral reefs, green islands, and keys, the huge boat settles gently into the snug harbor of Nassau where anchorage is made in the heart of the smartest of England’s colonies.
-----------9-----------
ONLY 1 ]/2 DAYS FROM
Boston—New York—Washington—Chicago—St. Louis and other Northern Cities
to	HAVANA OR NASSAU
by famous ‘‘PLANE-TRAINS” (Rail-Air)
The ‘‘Havana Special” from eastern cities,- the ‘‘Dixie Limited,” the "Floridan,” and other winter trains from the West offer fast through service with “train to plane” transfer at Miami. These fine trains, in cooperation with the above de luxe planes, make a two weeks’ vacation by this fast service not only possible but inexpensive at new, low, through round trip rates.
ONLY 25 HOURS BY AIR
from Eastern Cities (Air-Rail-Air)
Havana and Nassau are now as near to New York as New York is from Chicago.
FLYING WITH PAN AMERICAN •
Travel-comfort and dependable transportation for its patrons is the sole object of Pan American passenger service. This means all the conveniences of established surface transportation, operating on schedules with a speed that cuts days to hours, and months to weeks. Aboard Pan American Airliners, and throughout the System, all personnel are guided by one purpose— your ease and security. In flight, a steward serves refreshments—observes your every want and need. At all stations, offices, in airport Aerocars, as well as en route, this policy prevails. Customs officers check you through almost without your attention,- your trip will be carefree.
The cabins of airliners are appropriately and restfully finished, and there is plenty of room to move about. In winter they are pleasantly warm,- in summer they are cooled by the crystal clear upper air. The ships are immaculate, inside and out. Distinguished and interesting people travel with Pan American. It’s the smart way. Why not enjoy the fellowship of a trip with them?
FACTS ABOUT PAN AMERICAN
The following figures are for the period January 1, 1929 to September 1, 1931:
104 Modern multi-motored airliners (including the world’s largest flying boats in commercial service).
2 Largest flying boats in commercial use (see description). 54 Ground radio stations.
19,742 Miles of airways in operation.
32 Latin-American countries and colonies served. 22,803,806 Passenger-miles flown to date.
90,105 Passengers carried to date.
4,845,219 Pounds of mail, express, and baggage carried to date. 110 Miles per hour average travel speed.
99.71 % Regularity of schedule maintained.
87 Pilots, each with more than 2,500 hours’ experience.
All airliners en route are in communication with ground stations by two-way radio for constant weather reports, and other operating information.
Multi-motored equipment is used exclusively for all passenger service except where conditions justify otherwise.
The most thorough and detailed system for maintenance of equipment known to air transportation is employed.
ALL EXPENSE AIR EXCURSIONS
From Miami air excursions are operated on scheduled planes to Havana, Nassau, Jamaica, and Panama, providing fascinating short vacation trips at low cost. Information will be sent on request.
[jjij3