Saturday Indian Fair, one of the largest in Ecuador, is fun. The Otavalo Indians weave wonderful woolen cloth that is not unlike Scotch tweed. Ambato, known as the garden city of Ecuador, is in the interior on the way to Baños, where the Amazon jungle starts. Baños is something of a summer resort and a spa; the climate is temperate. There are small, but comfortable and clean, hotels with good food. Go to Riobamba for market day if you can (110 miles south of Quito); it’s worth seeing. Santo Domingo is a little village of the Colorado Indians. They paint their bodies red and comb their hair in a way that resembles a helmet. Very interesting to tourists. Trips to any of the above-mentioned places must be arranged in Quito through a travel agency.
Guayaquil • • • The rail journey from Quito to this city descends from the Andes into the heart of the jungle. Guayaquil lies about 60 miles from the ocean on the Rio Guayas and has a pleasant tropical climate with an average temperature of 80 degrees. Hyacinths float on the river which teems with boats and ships. Guayaquil is the principal port of Eucador and its most important commercial and financial city.
The Humboldt International Hotel, on the waterfront of the River Guayas, is brand new and up to the most modern standards. Each room has a private balcony either facing the river or overlooking a beautiful swimming pool. The dining terrace also offers a view of the river. Rates, $4.50 to $8.40 single, $7.50 to $13.50 double, European Plan. The Hotel Metropolitano is also good; the rooms are comfortable, the food good. There are a bar and ice-water machines on each floor, swimming pool on the roof. Other hotels are the Majestic and Crillon. There are several good restaurants, including Fortich, Salon Rosado, La Dulzura and the Unión Club, which has a dining balcony over the river; the Inca Roof Garden is a new excellent night club, with fine orchestra and food. There is a yacht club, a golf club, and an excellent tennis club. Cards are needed for all of these. (Inquire at your hotel.)
Playas ... is the beach resort of the country, an hour and a half from Guayaquil. Here the Hotel Humboldt is new and luxurious. You may swim in the sea or in a pool. There is good deep-sea fishing in the Humboldt current. Everything is modern and the food excellent. Rates from $12.50 to $25 double, American Plan.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION . . In Quito Metropolitan Touring, Benalcazar 699 (Tel. 12006) and Ecuadorian Tours, Espejo 933 (Tel. 12305) are travel agencies which have folders in English, city and country maps, list of local events, hotels, restaurants. They will also provide tourist guides.
Useful addresses and telephone numbers for tourists in Quito:
Pan American Grace Airways, Inc., Chile 1050 (Tel. 10145); airport (Tel. 31803). American Embassy and Consulate, Avenida 12 de Octubre 1430 (Tel. 30600). American magazines stand, corner of Independence Square.
9/57
r*'*NT*o
Clipper and New Horizons, Trade-Marks, Pan American World Airways, Inc.