RESTAURANTS. . . Hotels Cordillera and Colón have the best menus in Quito; the Normandy (French food); Rincon de Sicilia (excellent for Italian food); Epicure does a good job on native dishes; La Duquesa (Austrian and German dishes). Prices are low compared with those in the United States.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Shopping center in Quito is on Venezuela and Guayaquil streets. Folklore, Avenida Colón 274, has a varied stock of typical women’s wear and local curiosities; also makes fine hand-woven rugs. Silver curios and antique shops: Silver Shop, Venezuela 908, Cisneros, Venezuela 918, Recalde, Guayaquil 1109, Galerías Bolívar, Espejo 847. Book shop (books in English) Librería Científica, Venezuela 654. Shops are open from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 2:00 to 6:30 p.m.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Horse racing on Sunday at Quito’s Hipódromo La Carolina, parti-mutuel betting. Cockfighting is popular throughout the country. Polo matches are played in Quito, Guayaquil, Ambato and Riobamba. In Quito a local sport called pelota de guante (glove ball) is played on Saturday afternoons and Sundays at a field almost in front of the American Embassy. No admission ticket. Ask a player to allow you to pick up the guante (bat) and or the ball. Considering their heavy weight you will marvel at their skill.
SPORTS. . .There is an attractive golf course at the Quito Golf Club. You may play tennis and take a swim at the Quito Tennis Club (cards required). Thermal swimming pools at nearby Alangasí, Tingo, and Cununyacu. Hunting for wild game is allowed in the country; arrangements may be made through local travel agencies. Golf Club and Tennis Club in Guayaquil are equally fine. In Guayaquil, fishing is varied and abundant. There is big-game fishing for bonito and marlin on the coast at Playas, Salinas and, farther north. Manta.
THEATERS. . . Principal theater in Quito is Teatro Sucre. Plays in Spanish only.
TIME. . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING... In hotels and restaurants give 10 per cent of the bill.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis are available everywhere in Quito. Fare from downtown to the residential zone, or vice versa, is 30 cents (5 sucres). Buses are always crowded. Colectivos (station wagons) offer fairly good service, fare 7 cents (1 sucre). Auto rental —with driver—$1.15 (20 sucres) per hour. For schedules of trains or special trips by car, see a travel agency.
WATER. . . Bottled water is advised. Guitig is the best; Mercedes is good, too.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Panamá hats are the best buy in Eucador. Properly called Montecristi, they are woven here, and not as you might think, in Panama. Montecristi and Jipijapa hats, famous the world over, may be bought for about $12. Beautiful antique-silver Indian ornaments, Indian costumes, hand-carved wooden chests,' handbags and cigarette cases woven of palm fiber. Native rugs and tweeds woven by Indians, beautiful and colorful native embroideries