CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO... All American brands of cigarettes are available at 37 cents a pack. 50 cigars, 300 cigarettes, 7 ounces pipe tobacco admitted duty free. There is a variety of local cigarettes. American pipe tobacco is also sold.
CLIMATE.. . Don’t think of Ecuador as a hot country. The coast is tropical, but the sierra with its snow-capped mountains is cool. Quito is called the City of Eternal Spring, but it is apt to be a little colder than spring as we think of it. Temperatures range from 50 degrees to 65 degrees. Quito, with an altitude of 9,000 feet, is the second highest capital in the world, topped only by La Paz. June to October are the best months to visit Quito or Guayaquil.
CLUBS. . . Pichincha Club, for bridge and other card games. Rotary and Lions. For golf and tennis, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS. . . Bargaining is accepted practice in shops or with street vendors. Women in slacks are not seen on the streets. Office hours in Quito are from 8:30 a.m. to 12 noon, and 2:00 to 6:00 p.m. Afternoon tea is a ritual in Quito’s social life. Cocktail parties begin around 7:00 p.m. The dinner hour is between 8:00 and 10:00 p.m.
COMMUNICATIONS - - All America Cables and Radio Inc., Telephones, Radio International. Airmail rate for letters and postal cards to the United States 90 cents Ecuadorian currency for the first 5 grams.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit of Ecuador is the sucre, divided into 100 cents. It is worth about 6 U. S. cents. Banks, travel agencies or money exchange houses will exchange at the rate fixed by the Central Bank of Ecuador.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS.. . No restrictions on currency, cameras or films; 1 bottle of liquor admitted duty free; 300 cigarettes, 50 cigars, 7 ounces pipe tobacco admitted duty free. No visa required for tourists. Only passport and tourist card with photo attached, fee $1; valid for three months. Certificates of health and smallpox vaccination needed. Tourist cards are issued by Eucadorian consulates or transportation companies. There’s a $2 landing fee at the airports.
DRUG STORES. . .There are modern stores where most United States medicines are sold. However, bring your own special prescriptions, already filled, with you.
ELECTRIC CURRENT. . . 110 volts, a.c., is'the standard voltage in Ecuador, as in the United States. Regular American-type plugs.
FAUNA. . .The most imposing is the condor, the giant bird that lives in the highest altitudes of the Andes. It appears on the Ecuadorian National Seal, symbolizing strength. Birds of fantastic plumages-—from the small humming bird to the large-beaked hnacamayos —can be found in the mountains. There are also herons, flamingos, ibis. In other zones of Ecuador there are monkeys, pumas, wildcats, bears, tapirs, deer, alligators. The waters of Ecuador are rich in many types of fish. The coast of the Galapagos Islands affords ex-