HOW TO GET THERE ... By Panagra’s de luxe through-plane service, “El Inter-Americano,” Guayaquil is only 8V2 hours from Miami; by connecting airline, 13!A hours from New York. Quito is 11 hours and 55 minutes from Miami, 60 minutes flying time from Guayaquil. By ship about 9 days from New York to Guayaquil.
ACCOMMODATIONS ... The Cordillera, in El Batán near Quito’s airport, is very good, and has excellent food. English-speaking staff. Rates about $8.60 per day single, $16 double, American Plan. The Colón, a few blocks from the American Embassy, has a friendly, pleasant atmosphere. Also very good food. Patronized mostly by Americans. Rates about $6.35 to $9.30 single, $11.40 to $k7.25 double, American Plan. The Embajador, Avenida Colón y 9 de Octubre, is larger than the other two with more comfortable rooms, all with private bath. Good food. Rates $5.20 single, $9.20 double, European Plan; $9.20 single, $16 double, American Plan. Also check on the new Humboldt Capitol Hotel, Quito’s largest and most modern hotel, in the center of town within walking distance of the shopping places and of all principal churches. (Visiting the churches is a must for every tourist in Quito.) The Majestic is a commercial hotel downtown. Rates from $2.60 to $4.50 single, $5.20 to $6 double, European Pl^n. Residence Lutetia, Pensión Explanada, and Pensión Santa Maria are comfortable and clean boarding houses. Rates run from $4.50 to $7 a day, $125 a month, with meals included.
ARTS . . . Quito, during colonial times, was the art center of South America. There are churches and museums containing century-old paintings and sculptures. Quito’s magnificent churches like La Compañía, San Francisco, La Merced, San Augustin, etc., with altars carved like lace, famous old paintings and sculptures—sparkling baroque jewels of the Moorish art—are wonders without equal elsewhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
The Museum of Colonial Art exhibits a fine collection of Ecuadorian paintings and sculptures of the last four centuries. The Franciscan Museum has a valuable collection of colonial religious art and old sacred objects.
The Casa de la Cultura Ecuatoriana has a gallery of antique and modern Ecuadorian art and a museum of musical instruments.
BANKS . . . Banco Central del Ecuador, Banco del Pichincha, La Previsora, Banco de Abastos, Banco de Préstamos, Banco Popular. Travel agencies, hotels and money exchange houses cash traveler’s checks. Free exchange is allowed.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; 2-day carnival on Monday and Tuesday preceding Lent; Maundy Thursday and Good Friday; May 1, International Labor Day; May 24, Battle of Pichincha; July 24, Bolivar’s Birthday; August 10, Ecuador’s Independence Day; October 9, Anniversary of Guayaquil; October 12, Day of Columbus; November 1, All Saints Day; November 3, Anniversary of Cuenca; Christmas Day.