cellent deep-sea fishing. The Galapagos are also famous for big turtles that abound there, as well as for large lizards, which have been classified as antediluvian.
FLORA. . . Among the native species the most important are: the cinchona tree (quinine), kapok tree, balsa tree, guayacan tree, fan-palm tree. Naranjilla is a fruit grown only in Ecuador.
FOOD.. . Typical native dishes are well spiced and fairly exotic for the American palate. Try llapingachos—fried mashed potatoes with cheese—or locro, a stew soup of potatoes and cheese, either of the two with an avocado on top. Humitas are tamales made of sweet corn, more delicate than the Mexican type. If you are in a bar at noon, try ceviche de corvina or ceviche de langostinos or cocktail de camarones. They are native dishes; hot, but very good with a glass of beer. In Guayaquil, try naranjillada, a fruit-juice drink. Pasteurized milk is available in bottles. Food prices in restaurants are lower than in the United States; they run from $1 up.
GAMBLING. . . In Quito, horse racing on Sundays at La Carolina race track, with pari-mutuel betting. There is a weekly national lottery. Also a casino at the beach resort Playas, near Guayaquil.
LANGUAGE. . . Although Spanish is the universal language, English is spoken and understood in the tourist centers, hotels and better shops.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING. .. La Química, Nilo and Iris are among the best in Quito. 24-hour service, good quality, prices below those in the United States. Your laundry can always be arranged for through your hotel.
LIQUOR. •• Pilsener, 18 cents (3 sucres), and Victoria, 15 cents (2.50 sucres), are two native beers which are famous throughout South America. Popular American drinks are available in hotels and restaurants. Average price, 60 cents (10 sucres).
MEDICAL FACILITIES. . . Clínica Pichincha and Isidro Ayora Maternity are modern hospitals and have English-speaking doctors.
MOTION PICTURES. . . All movie houses in Quito show the latest American films with titles in Spanish. The best theaters are: Bolívar, Pichincha, Variedades, Hollywood in the center of town; Capitol and Colón in the residential zone.
MUSIC- • • Pasillo, San Juanito, Cachuyapi are the native dances. Military bands give Sunday- and Thursday-evening concerts in the principal squares. Internationally famous artists play at the Sucre Theater in Quito.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . Fiesta and Pigalle are the best night clubs in Quito; all have good orchestras and food.
PHOTOGRAPHY. .. Black-and-white and color still and movie film are available as well as cameras and photo equipment. Prices slightly higher than in the United States. Developing of still films takes 24 hours. No color developing.
RELIGION.. . Ecuador is a Catholic country. Quito has about 60 churches. There are also Evangelist and Baptist churches, Witness of Jehová and Jewish synagogues.