^ On the MIAMI - HAVANA ROUTE —Over the Florida Keys and the Gulf Stream — 226 miles
MIAMI — Center of a cluster of cities surrounding Bis-cayne Bay, including Miami Beach, forming one of the world's most famous winter resorts. Population of the area is 250,000, with more than a million visitors each year, including the breeze-swept summertime.
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT — Leading Airport of Entry in the Americas for air passengers from foreign ports. More than 70,000 per year cleared in and out between the Americas. Original home of the Famous Flying Clipper Ships.
COCONUT GROVE — Oldest settlement on Biscayne Bay, now part of the city of Miami and site of a "Millionaire's Row" of luxurious estates.
BISCAYNE BAY — Extends 50 miles from north of Miami Beach to Barnes Sound at Key Largo. Former center of pirate operations.
REDLANDS — Rich citrus section—oranges, grapefruit, tangerines, kumquats, papaya, and large vegetable farms.
THE EVERGLADES — Famous low plains with numerous waterways, extending 60 miles to the Gulf of Mexico. Tropical flora and fauna. Seminole Indian camps. Cypress swamps. Now authorized as a National Park.
KEY LARGO — ["Key" is from Spanish ”cayo"-island]. Largest of all the famous Florida Keys, some 25 miles long. Mangrove, live oak, gumbo-limbo trees. Site of famous Key Largo Anglers club. [See map]. Pirate treasure —1500 pounds of silver Pieces of Eight—found on the island in 1938. Toward the southern end, on the Bay side, the Caribbean Club may be seen.
OVERSEAS HIGHWAY — One of the world's strangest roads. Connects Miami and Key West [160 miles] with 100 miles actually over water on a vast series of bridges and causeways. There are several mile-long bridges. Longest is a seven-mile span at Knight's Key. The highway was constructed at a cost of $7,500,000 on the former right of way of the famous old Florida East Coast Overseas Railway. More than 30,000 automobiles use the Highway each year.
FLORIDA KEYS — Chain of hundreds of green islands of coral and lime formation, stretching from Miami to the Gulf of Mexico, famed for their pirate lore and scores of wrecks in early sailing days. Treasure has been found on nearly every key. Over 600 varieties of fish have brought the region great favor among fishermen. Limes and tropical fruits are grown. Climate is always mild.
KEY WEST — Southernmost city in the United States. Former pirate headquarters and later, center of the famous fleet of wrecking schooners. Ancient Indian settlement. Articles of both Mayan and Incan origin and Spanish treasure have been unearthed. Entire island purchased for $2,000 in 1819. Now quaint and quiet but thriving resort community and U. S. Navy base. Center of famed fishing waters and home of author Ernest Hemingway. Climate mild year around.
PIRATES AND WRECKERS — Identified by light shades of water, the Florida reefs roughly parallel the keys a few miles to seaward. Before navigation charts were made, these shades caused many wrecks to sailing vessels — the basis for the activities of pirates and later the legiti-
mate salvaging business of the famed Florida Wrecking Fleet.
COUNTER CURRENT — Runs southwestward near the shoals, opposite to the direction of the Gulf Stream.
GULF STREAM — Mysterious, powerful "Blue River in the Sea," one of the earth's greatest physical forces; here 90 miles wide, 2,000 feet deep. In comparison, the Mississippi is a tiny stream. Identified by its deep indigo color. Caused by trade winds blowing westward, piling warm tropical waters up in the Gulf of Mexico. Seeking an outlet, the water rushes through the deep Florida straits on its 5,000-mile swing through the ocean to Scandanavia, keeping Florida, Bermuda, England and France warm, then turning southward to Africa to complete its great circuit totaling 12,000 miles. The great stream was discovered and named by Benjamin Franklin. Its speed is 3 to 5 miles per hour.
CUBA — "Pearl of the Antilles," largest island of the West Indies, stretches 760 miles from Haiti on the east, nearly to Mexico on the west. Discovered by Columbus on his first voyage, Cuba was a thriving Spanish colony 200 years before the United States was settled; remained Spanish until the people revolted, aided by United States, and became a republic [1898.] Rich in history and romance, Cuba is also naturally rich in minerals and tropical products, famed for its enormous sugar production and its tobacco. For tropic scenery and sightseeing interest, Cuba is unsurpassed. Highways and the modern National airways [Pan American subsidiary] are available for short or longer trips throughout the island.
MATANZAS — One of Cuba's chief cities [population
75.000]	and its great bay famed for its old-time pirate activities, are not far eastward from the Clipper's course. Nearby are the beautiful "Blue Beach" and the resort of Varadero, reached by highway from Havana.
MORRO CASTLE — Famed landmark of Havana, has guarded the harbor entrance for four centuries. Its construction required eight years — 1589 to 1597. It consists of, besides the tower fort, surmounted by the light house, two defense batteries, covering the harbor entrance and the channel. The moat, interior chambers and dungeons were cut in solid rock. There is a stone chute from the fort to the sea through which it is said Cuban prisoners were hurled to the sharks during the revolution against Spain. El Morro withstood a 67-day seige by the British in 1762 and fought off many attacks by pirates and other invaders. It is one of the most striking of the remaining Spanish fortifications in the "New World."
HAVANA — "Paris of the Americas" — [Population -—
700.000]	capital of Cuba, largest city between Baltimore and Rio, is also one of the handsomest and most interesting, a blend of the old and the new. Famed for its gaiety, history and romance, its fortresses, cathedrals, Spansh Colonial architecture, cafes, casinos, night clubs, horse-racing and Jai-Alai [Spanish national sport]. The "old city" contrasts strangely with the beautiful boulevards and homes of the modern Havana. Founded in 1519, Havana was a busy Spanish port four centuries ago. De Soto and Ponce de Leon set out from here on their explorations. The old city was attacked and sacked by pirates many times. The sinking of the U. S. battleship Maine in Havana harbor in 1898 started the Spanish-American war which made Cuba an independent republic. The city is replete with points of interest of many varied types.
THE REAL CUBA — Seeing Havana only in Cuba is like visiting New York without seeing the United States. The beauties and interests of the real tropical Cuba are found
in the short trips by highway from Havana to Varadero Beach, Mariel, Botabano, and on Cuba's excellent, modern air services of "Cubana" the National Airways, a Pan American subsidiary. Such interesting places as the Isle of Pines, Cienfuegos, Camaguey and Santiago [made famous by Colonel Roosevelt's Rough Riders and other historic events] are easily and quickly reached by air. Information at the Pan American Airways office •— No. 252 on the Prado, Havana's principal street.
"IN THIS WORLD ABOVE THE EARTH"
ALTHOUGH flying is the most natural way to move about the earth—a goal toward which man has struggled through thirty centuries—the miracle of modern flight is still so new that the elements of this new means of effortless, swift movement are little known to most of those who now travel, as a matter of course, along the fast spreading highways of the sky.
The reason is natural enough. We have been earth-bound through so many ages that our lives have been little concerned with this "world above the earth" which has, within this past generation alone, come to be a universally accepted means of modern travel. But this unobstructed "sky" through which we move so naturally is full of interest . . .
THE AIR —* As long as we were earthbound it was easy to accept the popular fancy that the atmosphere which surrounds our earth, and which we call the air, was simply a "mass of nothingness." Now we appreciate that it is a body of elements, just as the sea is a body of elements. Like soil or water, it has definite form and weight and substance. Clear air, true, is invisible. But clear water is also transparent. And the air is actually a definite supporting force — one which supports the airplane on all sides — whereas the earth or the sea supports surface vehicles only on one side. Not only does the air support the airplane, but it also helps to lift it. The shape of the plane's wing—and the force of the air driven over that wing by the engines' propellers—combine with the air to counteract the law of gravity.
THE WIND—The air through which you travel has contours, just like any other surface over which you move. But in this case the air moves from one temperature level to another. Warm air has a tendency to expand, and ascend. Cold air contracts and descends. And the movement of the air from one temperature gradient to another creates what we call Wind. Wind is important to the flyer because it can either slow his progress or speed it •— according to whether or not it is traveling in the same direction that he is.
Often these "temperature levels" are perfectly smooth for hundreds of miles in all directions. At other times, depending upon the variation of temperatures, they are uneven. And when they are uneven the airplane moves down or up accordingly—just as an automobile "bumps" over an uneven road surface. And this movement of the airplane is what air men call "bumps." They are no more than that. During the early days of flying the uninitiated used to refer to them as "air pockets" -— the fanciful "holes in the sky"—phenomena which, of course, do not exist. SPEED — And just as flying brings you in contact with new elements, so does it require certain adjustments. For instance, it is almost impossible to experience speed, once your airliner is otf the surface. The reason for this is, that whereas in surface travel you are immediately in contact with various obstructions to your vision — which provide a means of measuring your movement — in the air these obstructions are so far removed that the element of motion is almost entirely dissipated.
ALTITUDE—Different altitude levels have different ad-
«Please turn to back cover»