Bunting
Deer, Bear, Turkey, Panther, etc
Seminole Village
Perrine
Redlands
Homestead
Everglades National Park
Florida City \
Tavernier
Islamorad
MIAMI BEACH
Key Biscayne .'an American Airport
. Army Air TEtase (Chapman Field) Biscayne Elliot Key y Pirate Creek Old Rhodes Key Pacific Reel
\ Club lund
LARGO
Pt Charles
Ponce De Leon Bay
Cape Sable
East Cape
All Types ot Saltwater Fishing
irate Cove-; dg Pine I /* *f^r--"Visliing
• Siili I
fllolasses Reel Plantation Key
Upper fllatecumbe Key Lower fllatecumbe Keys
Long Kev
W Dry Tortugas Old Ft letferson
Boot Key Baracuda
ombrerò
Jr
6 Saddlebunch Keys
Joca Chica
KEY WEST
Southernmost City in U. S.
)0
«Continued from Page 4»
vantages for flying. Normally, the higher altitudes are more constant in temperature range and hence offer smoother air. Since temperature decreases one degree for every 300 feet of altitude, the upper air channels are also cooler and more comfortable to travel in. And since most of the ''weather" experienced on the earth comes from the lower altitude clouds, the upper altitude channels provide clearer lanes for aerial traffic.
Normally you have no sense of altitude. There is no "dizzy feeling" experienced from looking down from your airliner as many people experience, for instance, in looking at the ground from a tall building. The reason for this is that there are no downward lines which attract the vision to the surface, an attraction which creates the sense of dizziness. The only notable effect is the change of pressure. As you rise in altitude the pressure of the atmosphere, naturally, grows lighter. But, ascending, the change is so gradual that one can seldom notice it. When you are descending, however, the pressure of the atmosphere is, naturally, increasing. As this pressure-change accumulates it may affect the ear drums. It is entirely harmless, but may be momentarily uncomfortable. All you need to do to equalize the pressure is to swallow—or yawn.
NEW HORIZONS — One of the most interesting adjustments to be made is to that of vision — which air travel multiplies magically. All of your life on the surface, you have been able to see only a distance of 2l/2 miles over a perfectly level stretch of earth. By the time your air-linr is off the surface this horizon of yours has increased nearly five times—to \ll/2 miles! In the first sixty seconds of your flight it has broadened to 361/} miles. And at a cruising altitude of 10,000 feet the horizon ahead, on a normally clear day, is 144 miles away. With one complete turn of the head you can survey 1,000 square miles! And if ahead of you there are mountains that reach as high as your altitude—10,000 feet—you will be able to see peaks of these mountains while they are still nearly 300 miles away.
DEPARTED FROM.
r
•i :JÈ :
Varadero Beacb
(entrai Hershey W ,
laruca
'V Sugar Cane
Rancho
Boyeros Airport
Tapaste
las Vegas
mm


MIAMI - HAVANA