Chapter 3
PLANES AND PROGRESS
A picture story of the
historical development of Pan American's equipment
The structure of a globe-girdling airline like ours rests on many pillars. Among the most important of these are:
Our traditions and history Our philosophy of service Our people Our product Our equipment
For the moment, let’s concentrate on Pan American’s equipment . . . the vast Clipper fleet with which we literally span the world.
When you trace the development of Pan American equipment through the years, three driving forces immediately become apparent: PIONEERING . . . PLANNING . . . PROGRESS.
Our PIONEERING is evident in the parade of Pan Am’s milestones in the history of commercial aviation.
Careful PLANNING went into the development of each new piece of equipment, taking into consideration such factors as speed, safety, economy, efficiency, capacity, comfort and many others.
Finally, as you will see, we never stopped PROGRESSING. Each year brought an expansion of our services and the development of new planes that could open up new places to commercial air travel. And the experience we gained from the performance of each new plane was built into the structure of the next.
But. . . actually .. . our equipment tells its own story. Let’s look at that story now.
Our first route, the one from Key West to Havana, was flown by a Fokker F-7. It had three motors and was the first American overseas transport plane. It had a cruising speed of 85 m.p.h. (137 km.p.h.), and a
capacity of ten passengers — if no one brought any baggage.
THE FOKKER F-7
Now, just to see how far we’ve come, let’s jump ahead of our story by 31 years to Pan Am’s pioneer plane of today. On October 26, 1958, this Boeing 707-121 Jet Clipper took off from New York bound for Paris . . . inaugurating daily jet service across the Atlantic. With a cruising speed up to 575 miles per hour (926 km. per hour), and flying at altitudes above 30,000 feet, the 707 Jet Clipper has revolutionized air travel . . . cutting travel time by 40 per cent.
11