RATE . .. the amount charged by the carrier for carriage of a unit of weight (or volume) or value of goods or excess baggage.
RECIPROCATING ENGINE . .. engine supplying power by the back and forth motion of pistons.
REFUND . . . the repayment to the purchaser of all or a portion of a fare, rate or charge for unused carriage.
RESERVATION . . . equivalent to the term booking. The allotment in advance of seating or sleeping accommodation for a passenger or of space or weight capacity for baggage or goods.
RESERVATION CODES ... the complex codes used in making reservations by wire or radio.
RESERVATIONS CONTROL ... the office responsible for the controlling of saleable space (seats and cargo).
REVENUE . .. applied to passengers, it means passengers for whose transportation remuneration is received; applied to cargo and mail, it means shipments for which remuneration is received; applied to hours flown, miles (kilometers) flown, seat miles (kilometers) and ton-miles (kilometers) available, it means transport operations executed with the intention of carrying revenue traffic.
RIBS .. . crosspieces in the framework of the airplane.
ROLL ... the action which occurs when one wing goes up and the other goes down.
ROLLING CART . . . a cart used to carry such meal service items as carved roast, desserts, bar service, etc. It is rolled down the aisle to the passenger’s seat, allowing him to make his own selection.
ROUTE, DIRECT .. . the shortest route operated between two points.
ROUTE, INDIRECT . . . any route other than the direct route operated between two points.
ROUTING . . . designation of a route or routes.
RUDDER . . . upright piece on tail which controls the yaw, or turning of the airplane from right to left.
SALES AGENT . .. may work on the telephone, behind a counter, or outside the office. The person who is the “contact” with the customer; expert on international air travel, rates, schedules, etc.
SCHEDULE ... a timetable of arrival and departure of our Clipper flights.
SCHEDULED FLIGHT .. . used to denote the actual establishment of a flight, to be operated at regular times, for which a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity or its equivalent has been issued.
SCHEDULING . . . the department responsible for the scheduling of aircraft and flight crews.
SEAT CHART ... a chart indicating the pattern (configuration) of seats, their numbers, etc.
SEAT CHART (FLIGHT SERVICE) ... a seating diagram on which passenger names are entered in the appropriate places.
SECTOR ... a portion of a route or travel between two non-consecutive stopping places.
SELCALL .. . an electronic device giving the pilot a signal, letting him know when a ground station wants to contact him directly by radio telephone. This spares the pilot from having to monitor all ground-to-air messages.
SHIP-SIDE .. . term used to denote a passenger who is at the airport of departure ready to go on a particular flight, hoping that a reserved passenger will fail to check in for departure. Similarly, this applies to Clipper Cargo.
SIMULATOR ... a device for imitating flying conditions and training pilots, etc. Example, the “Link Trainer.”
SPEED, AIR . .. the speed of an airplane through the air.
SPEED, CRUISING . .. speed at which an airplane may fly; not over 90 per cent of its design-level speed. The most efficient and economical speed of flight.
SPEED, GROUND ... the actual speed of the airplane over the ground, i.e., airspeed plus or minus wind velocity.
SPEED, LANDING ... the minimum speed of an airplane reached as the airplane makes contact with the ground in normal landing.
SPOILERS ... on the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper, hydraulically-actuated plates which, rising on the upper surface of the wing, spoil the “lift”, causing the plane to bank toward the wing on which the spoilers are raised. Also, may act as “air brake”, when raised symmetrically on both wings.
STACKING ... a term describing the “holding” procedure when aircraft are waiting their turns to land at an airport during instrument flying conditions.
STATION ... the office at an airport concerned with the maintenance of PAA facilities and operations.
STEWARD ... a member of the Flight Service crew. He is responsible to the Purser; looks after the needs of passengers.
92