ment of South America by acquiring routes up the east coast. All this while, our men and women were engaged in research as well as operations, finding and employing new techniques, learning by our fast-growing experience.
THE PACIFIC
Then we turned to the Pacific. Interest was purchased in China National Aviation Corporation, and two airlines in Alaska joined Pan Am, with a Great Circle Route to the Orient in mind. And, we also gained operational experience in the Arctic — valuable background and training for the day when a route to Europe might bridge the Polar Ice Cap.
Our approach to flight of the great oceans used the technical and operative experience gained in Latin America.
In four months during 1935, two complete villages and five air bases were created on a desolate island chain — stepping stones to the continent of Asia. Hawaii first, then Midway, Wake, Guam, and Manila, in the Philippines.
As each segment of the route was completed, a Sikorsky S-42 followed behind, conducting valuable survey flights. In November, 1935, the “China Clipper” flew over San Francisco’s Golden Gate outward-bound on the first scheduled flight across the Pacific. One year later, the final leg to Hong Kong was completed, and the system stood at 40,869 route miles.
The experienced pioneers of Pan Am were ready to tackle the Atlantic.
THE ATLANTIC
It presented the greatest challenge — offering no series of islands as convenient service bases. Practical routes had to be found, and no airplane so far developed had the reach for the long non-stop stretches imposed by the Atlantic.
Our route explorations were going on even as we were developing routes in South America. Research expeditions probed climate and weather conditions in Iceland, Greenland, Labrador and Newfoundland. Engineers took readings on the Azores and Africa, looking toward a mid-Atlantic route. Air surveys were made on all possible routes — including the Far North. Data was compiled, studied and evaluated at Pan Am’s headquarters office — experience being used for the future — out of this study, two dependable routes emerged; one a Great Circle to the north, the other a mid-Atlantic route through the Azores.
On May 20, 1939, the “Yankee Clipper” gathered speed in the waters of Port Washington, Long Island — destination, Lisbon, then on to Marseilles, France. On May 27, she returned, and the first scheduled air
mail service across the Atlantic was completed. The following month, a Clipper made the first flight via the northern Great Circle route to England and on June 28, the “Dixie Clipper” carried the first air passengers in history across the Atlantic.
BEGINNING A NEW ERA
At this time, we had more than 60,000 miles of routes and 5,000,000 miles of over-water flying experience behind us. The great land areas of the world had now been joined. For Pan Am, and for the world, this was the beginning of a new era.
World War II speeded the development of Pan Am. At the same time, our facilities, personnel and experience were all enlisted in support of the war effort of the Allied Nations. In addition to the transport of troops and materiel, the years of accumulated experience were put to use in training flight, engineering, traffic and maintenance personnel for the military services. New and vital airports and air bases in some of the most forbidding corners of the earth were built by Pan Am. Whole new route systems were established and flown.
Having spanned the Pacific, then the Atlantic, we linked the east and west routes by around-the-world service in 1947.
POLAR ROUTE
The years of experience, route survey and exploration work, and familiarity with operating techniques in Polar regions again paid off. In 1957, we started service via the short cut Polar Route — across the top of the world — linking the west coast of the United States to Europe.
In thirty years, we had come from a 90-mile hop to Cuba, to a full-scale world service, including U. S. — Europe scheduled service over the Pole.
JET SERVICE
In the fall of 1958, we entered a new pioneering phase of travel, with the start of Jet Clipper service between the United States and Europe. This was a completely different mode of travel, made possible by the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper, developed as a joint effort by Boeing and Pan Am. The Douglas DC-8 Jet Clipper, a later addition to the Pan Am fleet, adds to the new concept in travel comfort and range. With flying speeds close to 600 miles-an-hour, former flight times have been cut almost in half.
We find that the world is as small as air speed makes it. The implications of jet travel to human living may very well be more important than the technical accomplishment. At this very moment, our Clippers are carrying a group of scientists to a meeting in London
6