Chapter 10
PAN AM ROUTES and SCHEDULES
A description of Pan Am's routes, by Divisions
SYSTEM FLIGHT NUMBERS
Because Pan American operates hundreds of flights to all parts of the world, a simple but effective “identification code” has been established. This code is in the form of System flight numbers.
These code numbers help to identify each of our flights in terms of the areas in which they operate. They also help our personnel and customers to locate Pan Am flights quickly, in all airline time tables and schedules.
Here is a general breakdown of our flight numbers: 1-2 — Round-the-world
11-199 — Throughout Europe and across the Atlantic, including U. S. west coast to Europe Polar Route
200 & 400—LAD — East coast South America and Caribbean
500 — LAD — Mexico, Central America, Venezuela
600 — OD — Internal German Service.
700 — Panagra
800 — OD — Pacific Islands and Orient 900 — OD — Alaska
In addition, there are break-downs in terms of even-numbered and odd-numbered flights:
In LAD — Even numbers apply to north bound flights.
Odd numbers apply to south bound flights.
In OD — Even numbers apply to east bound flights.
Odd numbers apply to west bound flights.
Now let’s consider our routes, as organized on the basis of geographical location.
ROUTES in LAD
The Latin American Division (LAD), operates extensively throughout the western hemisphere.
Although we don’t operate scheduled flights between cities in the continental United States, we do operate out of certain cities, which are referred to as our U. S. gateways.
U. S. gateway cities which serve as terminal points for LAD routes are Boston, Baltimore, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Miami, New Orleans, Houston, Brownsville, Eos Angeles and San Francisco. Operating from these gateways, LAD aircraft serve the countries of Central America, the islands of the Caribbean, and the north and east coasts of South America.
The west coast of South America is served by Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra). The two carriers, Pan Am and Panagra, meet at Panama City, and at Buenos Aires in Argentina, which is the southernmost terminal station for both the east and west coast routes..
ROUTES IN OD
The Overseas Division was formed in December,. 1959, by combining the old Atlantic Division with the Pacific-Alaska Division.
Routes in the Pacific area are identified by flight numbers in the 800 and 900 series. Plights in the 800 series identify all those between west coast U. S. cities and points in the Orient, as well as the islands in the Pacific and down to Australia and New Zealand. The 900 series identifies flights operating between the west coast cities of the U. S. to cities in Alaska.
Atlantic area flights are identified by numbers between 11 and 199. These identify transatlantic flights and flights within Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
East coast cities used as gateways are Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago and New York. West coast gateways are Los Angeles, Portland, Seattle and San Francisco.
43