FROZEN FOOD CHEST ... the carrier for all frozen entrees and vegetable courses on flights for which frozen food meals are provided.
FUSELAGE ... body of the airplane to which the wings and tail are attached.
GALLEY. . . the “kitchen” of an airplane.
GATEWAY . . . in Pan American terms, a city in the United States which is the originating station and terminal for our Clipper flights.
GCA . . . abbreviation for Ground Control Approach.
GCT. .. abbreviation for Greenwich Civil Time.
GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO)... the office which receives and disburses the funds of the company and maintains the records in connection therewith. It provides financial and statistical information; sets up and operates controls for protecting and safeguarding the funds and properties of the company.
GREAT CIRCLE ROUTE . . . the shortest route between any two points on earth and which, if continued, would go completely around the earth.
GREENWICH MERIDIAN TIME (GMT) . . . Greenwich Time, which is also called Greenwich Meridian Time, is always the standard time in Greenwich, England, located on the Zero meridian.
GROUND CONTROL APPROACH ... the technique or procedure for “talking down” an aircraft during its approach so as to place it in a position for landing during conditions of poor visibility and low ceiling through the use of radar.
GROUND SPEED . . . the actual speed of the airplane over the ground; i.e., airspeed plus or minus wind velocity.
GROSS TAKE-OFF WEIGHT ... the total weight of an airplane and all its contents at the time of take-off.
GUIDED MISSILES RANGE DIVISION (GMRD) ... a
division of Pan Am operated by Pan Am under a United States Government contract for the development and testing of guided missiles.
HANGAR ... any building used as a shelter, or for the storage of aircraft.
HEADWIND . . . wind blowing against plane’s nose and slowing its ground speed.
HORSEPOWER . . . unit by which rate of work is measured—one horsepower is the power necessary to lift 550 pounds one foot in one second.
IATA . . . abbreviation for International Air Transport Association.
ICAO . . . abbreviation for International Civil Aviation Organization.
IHC . .. abbreviation for Intercontinental Hotels Corp© ration.
ILS . . . abbreviation for Instrument Landing Systems. INFLIGHT . . . during flight.
INITIAL CARRIER ... the carrier transporting the passenger or shipment of goods over the first portion of the itinerary.
INSTRUMENT FLIGHT .. . operating the plane by reference to instruments when overcast weather obscures the ground. There is no such thing as “blind flying”-— planes are flown by visual contact with the ground or by instruments.
INSTRUMENT LANDING SYSTEMS (ILS)... converging radio beams which enable the captain to bring his plane through overcast weather as safely and dependably as in bright sunlight.
INTER-LINE ... a flight/ticket/air waybill involving segment of more than one airline’s routes to get from the starting point to the destination.
INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT . . . an agreement between carriers (airlines) to exchange equipment, generally to permit the passengers to continue through the areas served by the airlines without changing planes (but usually changing crews). Example: PAA-Panagra-National interchange from New York to Buenos Aires.
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS CORPORATION (IHC)...
a wholly-owned subsidiary of PAA, which manages or leases hotels.
INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (IATA) ... a voluntary association composed of members of the world’s airlines, dealing with common air transportation problems such as standardization of procedures, tariffs, etc.
INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (ICAO).. . an affiliate of the United Nations set up to try to standardize international laws governing aviation; to expand international trade. It is governed by an assembly composed of one representative of each member nation.
ISSUE WIRE... a term designated to denote the issuance of a ticket against payment being made at an office different than the one where the ticket is issued or delivered to the passenger. It is a means of preparing the transportation and the term is used because in some instances a telegram or radiogram is required to effect the pre-payment and issuance of the ticket.