BAGGAGE TAG ... a document issued by a carrier solely for identification of checked baggage placed in its custody by the passenger, the baggage (strap) portion of which is attached by the carrier to a particular article of checked baggage and the baggage (claim) tag portion given to the passenger.
BAGGAGE, UNACCOMPANIED ... baggage not carried on the same aircraft as that on which the passenger is carried.
BALANCED LOAD . . . cargo, passengers and fuel are distributed in relation to the center of gravity of an airplane so that there is no imbalance of forces.
BASSINET ... a special cradle carried aboard our planes for infants. It is attached to the forward cabin walls by special fittings.
BOOKING . . . used synonymously with the word reservation and has the same meaning whenever it is used in connection with the reservations activity.
BRIEFING.. . instructions given to pilots and crew members before take-off.
BRIEFING ROOM . . . the room in which the pre-flight Captain’s or Flight Service supervisor’s Briefings take place.
BROKER . . . an agent in buying and selling; a middleman paid by commission; a Custom House broker who handles incoming and outgoing shipments on a fee basis.
BUFFET ... a light meal, frequently served cold and consisting of sandwiches, hors d’ouvres, etc.
CAB . . . Civil Aeronautics Board.
CABIN ... the interior of an airplane, the passenger compartments (does not include the cargo or baggage holds.)
CABOTAGE ... The act of carrying passengers from one city to another within the same country, as part of an international flight without permission or agreement.
CAPTAIN'S BRIEFING ... a pre-flight meeting of the crew, during which, the Captain outlines certain regulations to be followed, and reviews emergency procedures and equipment.
CARGO . .. equivalent to the term “goods”, means anything carried, or to be carried, in an aircraft, other than mail or baggage; provided that, unaccompanied baggage moving under an air waybill is cargo.
CARGO TRAFFIC MANUAL (CTM) ... a manual prepared by the Traffic & Sales Department, containing cargo traffic rules and regulations.
CARRIAGE ... equivalent to the term transportation.
CARRIAGE, INTERNATIONAL ... carriage in which, according to the contract of carriage, the place of departure and any place of landing are situated in more than one State; “state” meaning all territory subject to the sovereignty, suzerainty, mandate, authority, or trusteeship thereof.
CARRIER . . . the air carrier issuing the ticket (or air waybill) and all carriers that carry or undertake to carry the passenger and/or his baggage (or the cargo) thereunder or to perform any other services related to such air carriage. Also a bus, truck, railroad or shipping line.
CARRIER FLIGHT DESIGNATOR... the symbols or letters used in airline schedules to denote the particular carrier in connection with the flight listed. For example: PA designates Pan American World Airways, UAL designates United Airlines.
CEILING . . . the height above the ground at which more than half the sky is covered by clouds, smoke or dust; distance from the ground to the lower base of the lowest cloud layer.
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ... a certificate issued by the U. S. Civil
Aeronautics Board which, in effect, allows an airline to operate over a given route.
CHARGE. . . an amount to be “paid for carriage” of goods or excess baggage based on the applicable rate for such carriage.
CHARGE, CANCELLATION ... a service charge made * by reason of failure of a customer to use a reserved accommodation without having cancelled such accommodation prior to a designated time. (Not all countries or carriers have cancellation charges.)
CHARGE, EXCESS BAGGAGE ... a charge for the carriage of excess baggage.
CHARGE, NO-SHOW ... a charge made by reason of the failure of a passenger to use reserved accommodations, either through failure to arrive at the airport at the time fixed by the carrier, or through arriving improperly documented or otherwise not ready to travel on the flight.
CHARTER . . . an agreement between a carrier and another party whereby the carrier leases its aircraft, together with the crew required for its operation, to the other party for a trip, or series of trips, or for a specified period of time.
86