Chapter 12
PAN AMERICAN-INDUSTRY RELATIONS
A general outline of the industrial, economic and governmental factors that affect and influence Pan Am's operations
Until now, we’ve been concerned with various aspects of our internal operations. In this chapter, let’s consider Pan American in relation to influences that exist outside the company itself.
Every international carrier, such as ours, actually comes under the jurisdiction of two sets of laws -—- the laws of:
1	— The country whose flag it carries.
2	— The various countries into which it flies.
Since Pan American is a United States flag airline, it is governed, firstly, by the commercial aviation laws of the U. S.
In the early days of commercial flight, air mail service was-—-in most cases — the major activity and revenue source of the airlines. Because of this, a large degree of indirect control over airline activities was exercised by the U. S. Post Office Department, through its mail carrying contracts.
But, during the 1930’s, as commercial aviation grew, it became obvious that a much broader form of regulation was needed. As a result, in 1938, the Civil Aeronautics Act was passed.
This Act was designed not only to regulate, but to encourage the growth of commercial aviation. It provided for the creation of the Civil Aeronautics Board as an overall administrative and governing body.
In 1959, the Federal Aviation Agency was created to absorb the duties of the Civil Aeronautics Administration and the Airways Modernization Board. It is the agency responsible for the United States airways system.
The Civil Aeronautics Board retains its former functions, but is now under the Federal Aviation Agency.
CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD
The mission of the Civil Aeronautics Board, or CAB, is to foster the growth and development of civil aviation and air commerce generally. A “Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity”, issued only by the CAB, is necessary before any new scheduled service can be put into operation by a U. S. air carrier.
Usually, these certificates are first granted on a temporary basis, until the service has had enough tryout to determine if it is in the public convenience . . . and also, economically sound. When the CAB issues a “Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity”, the airline company concerned must still obtain a permit from the nation — or nations — where the flights are scheduled to land.
In addition to the issuance of certificates, the CAB plays an important role in other activities of all U. S. flag airlines. The CAB, among other duties, prescribes lawful practices and carriage charges . . . sees to it that all U. S. companies observe tariff regulations . . . and administers the mail rate structure. In setting up mail rates, the CAB must make sure that they are fair and reasonable—both to the public and to the air carrier concerned.
47