The second course is, for example, a choice of clear Terrapin Soup with Sherry, or a delectable cream soup.
The main course features a choice of three or more entrées.
A typical selection on the North Atlantic flights could consist of :
1.	Roast Prime Rib of Steer Beef
2.	Roast Pheasant
3.	Lobster Thermidor
4.	Stuffed Rock Cornish Game Hen
5.	Sole Albert
6.	Double Lamb Chop
7.	Sweetbreads Financière
The passengers make their own selection on board, a la carte, at the beginning of the meal just as in a restaurant.
Of course vintage Champagne, an outstanding Burgundy blanc, and at least one of the Bordeaux of the Premier Grand Crus always accompany the meal.
The main course is followed by a special cheese course, featuring the finest imported cheeses — cut and served for the passengers at their tables.
Then follows the dessert and the fruit courses, after which coffee and a wide selection of liqueurs are offered.
Bar Service
Bar Service is available on first class flights, with a full range of cocktails and spirits, fine wines, cognacs and cordials, sparkling water and soft drinks. All served free of charge to the First Class passengers.
PASSENGER DIVERSIONS
Newspapers and Magazines are carried aboard for passenger entertainment along with the magazine CLIPPER, which contains news of many lands, lists of shopping bargains abroad, a route map, hints on travel (such as How to Clear U.S. Customs), currency conversion tables etc. Also carried: games, playing cards, a lavatory kit containing shave lotions, mouth wash etc., sewing kit, writing materials, children’s comics and coloring books and a baby kit containing emergency supplies of; paper diapers, bottles, baby food and other necessities. Bassinets or “Clipper Cradles” are also available.
ECONOMY "RAINBOW" SERVICE
In 1958, Pan Am introduced a transatlantic Economy Fare, providing low-cost service on more than half its flights across the Atlantic Ocean. Since then, the rest of the air transportation industry has followed Pan Am’s lead until, at present, Economy Class service exists throughout the world. This is a very important part of our business. Because of the low fares, we have been able to open air travel to more and more people who couldn’t have afforded it otherwise. More than half our passengers travel via Economy service.
68