Chapter 18
WHAT TO TAKE ALONG
Of course, the problem of what to take with you can never really be solved to everyone’s satisfaction, especially when you may he flying practically all over the world, from one climate to another. But there are a few basic tips that can make your trip easier and more enjoyable.
For example, do not overload, leave the “extras"’ at home. Build your wardrobe around one basic color. That way, you will not need to pack so many different colored shoes and purses. (Keep in mind that everything you pack will go with black accessories, rather than brown accessories for one dress, black for another, and blue for still another.)
We have asked several of our more experienced girls for their recommendations on how much to pack; here is a composite list:
2	sweaters, one warm 1 extra uniform
1 all-purpose dress 1 “dressy” winter dress 1 “dressy” summer dress 1 blouse 1 heavy skirt
3	pairs of nylons
1 pair of comfortable walking shoes (you will do a lot of it)
1 pair “dressy” shoes 1 “dressy” handbag
1	pair of slippers
2	changes of underwear 1 make-up kit
1 sewing kit
Simple costume jewelry
Your Make-Up Kit should include:
Curlers, shampoo, hair spray, toothbrush, tooth paste, deodorant, nail clippers, nail polish and remover, after-bath lotion, sun-tan lotion, lipstick, moisture cream, powder, eye drops, tissues and soap. (Your main supply of cosmetics can go into your large suitcase, to be used during layovers and to refill small containers for the return flight. For your cosmetics or make-up kit, use miniature plastic containers.)
PACKING FOR THE TRIP
No doubt some of you may he experienced travelers. But for those of you who are not, and as an aid for those who are, we thought that you might appreciate these hints on packing. We have found them quite useful.
LUGGAGE
The first thing to do is to separate your luggage into two different types. (1) A small, overnight bag (available at your local Pan Am office), to carry the things you may need during flight, and (2) a large, sturdy bag to carry the things you will not need until your arrival.
The overnight bag. This could contain your make-up kit, a sewing kit, a pair of flat shoes, extra pair of nylons, your in-flight smock, some spare band-aids and aspirins, and your gloves when not wearing them.
The large suitcase. A practical, lightweight, medium suitcase 26 to 29 inches long is suggested.
Make sure that your luggage is always properly tagged, and do not put your overnight bag on a seat or in the lounge. Store it in a convenient place out of the passenger’s way.
65