STEWARDESS . . . female member of Flight Service crew.
STOPOVER ... equivalent to the term break of journey, means a deliberate interruption, of a journey, by the passenger, agreed to in advance by the carrier, at a point between the place of departure and the place of destination.
SUBSIDY . . . public service revenue, financial aid authorized by the U. S. Congress to help develop air transportation so as to strengthen commerce, the postal service and U. S. national defense.
TABS . . . small hinged control surfaces which keep the airplane trim, or in straight, level flight.
TACHOMETER ... a meter which shows how fast the engine is turning over in revolutions per minute (rpm).
TAILWIND . . . wind blowing from behind the plane and increasing its ground speed.
TAKE-OFF ... the handling of an airplane leading up to and at the instant of leaving the ground.
TARIFFS ... the published fare, rates, charges and/or related conditions of carriage of a carrier.
TAXI .. . to operate an airplane under its own power, either on land or water, other than in actual take-off or landing.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (TAP)... a program set up by the United States Government, and participated in by Pan Am, to furnish aid and advise in the development of national airlines of friendly nations, such as Turkey, Pakistan, Thailand, Afghanistan.
TELETYPE MACHINE ... a machine which translates the information given it on a typewriter-like keyboard to impulses sent by wire or radio waves—it may also receive and type.
THROUGH-FLIGHT ... a particular operation of aircraft identified by the carrier by the use throughout of the same symbol, from point of origin via any intermediate points to the point of destination.
THRUST . . . the force resulting from the propeller, or escaping hot exhaust gases pulling or pushing the plane forward.
TICKET . . . the “Passenger Ticket and Baggage Check,” including all flight, passenger and other coupons therein, issued by the carrier, which provides for the carriage of the passenger and his baggage.
TICKET, EXCESS BAGGAGE ... a receipt issued by a carrier to a passenger(s) evidencing payment by the passenger(s) of excess baggage and/or valuation charges.
TICKET, PASSENGER . . . those portions of the ticket issued by Carrier which provide for the carriage of the passenger.
TIME TABLE . .. see Schedule.
TRAFFIC . . . business carried on by a carrier.
TRAFFIC BRIEFCASE . . . the briefcase put on board the airplane by the Traffic Department. It carries the papers and documents needed for clearance of passengers, crew, cargo and airplane at each stop.
TRANSPORTATION ... See Carriage.
TRAVEL AGENT ... a person or organization, independent of any airline, specializing in the sale of transportation.
TRIP . . . used to denote the routing over which the aircraft will fly. It is usually accompanied by a number or other symbol to designate the particular movement involved. (See also FLIGHT.)
TRIP, CIRCLE ... travel from one point and return thereto by a continuous, circuitous air route; provided that where no reasonably direct scheduled air service is available between two points, a break in the circle may be traveled by any other means of transportation without prejudice to the circle trip.
TRIP, OPEN-JAW... travel which is essentially of a round trip nature but the outward point of departure and inward point of arrival and/or outward point of arrival and inward point of departure of which are not the same.
TRIP, ROUND ... equivalent to the term return journey, means (a) travel from one point to another and return by the same air route used outbound whether or not the fares outbound and inbound be the same, or (b) travel from one point to another and return by an air route different from that used outbound for which the same normal, through, one-way fare is established.
TURBOCOMPOUND ENGINE ... an engine using a compound of gas turbines and a reciprocating engine driving a propeller.
TURBOJET ENGINE . . . an engine using gas turbines generating hot exhaust gases which provide the thrust which pushes the airplane.
TURBO PROP ... a modern type of aircraft engine, more correctly called a turbo jet. A jet engine (somewhat turbine-like in construction) is geared to and turns propellers.
TWENTY-FOUR HOUR CLOCK ... the system of time used by the airlines and many other parties. AM and PM are not necessary, as every time can be written in four digits. Examples: 10:00 A.M. is 1000, 12:00 Midnight is 2400.
93