
able to expertly serve any drink desired by a passenger from our excellent selection of liquors available on our flights.
“Extra” acts of human kindness and understanding will become instinctive.
Naturally, you will always be flying with an experienced Purser. You may always look to him for guidance and help. As you go about your work, you will find that everything you have learned will fall into place, and although the number of things to be done is great — they will get done, with a great feeling of personal satisfaction.
Now, this is only your first step on a long and interesting road of training activity. After your basic training, and during your probationary period, you’ll attend additional classes, building on the knowledge you gain in-flight. Then, there will be more advanced continuation training to enable you to brush-up and learn new skills along with your growing experience. Then, of course, there is Purser training, and more advanced continuation training after that.
The rewards are many. As you grow with experience, you will become qualified to take up the duties ol Purser. Then you will take charge . . . then it will be your duty to help less experienced girls gain from your experience.
For those of you who need to improve your linguistic ability, the most modern language instruction tools are provided in our Language Lab.
You will find that your proficiency in foreign languages will improve. Also food handling and serving, and your initiative and adaptability to cope with the unusual. And the personal compensations are innumerable. Repeated flights to anywhere in the world will give you a practical, first-hand knowledge of geography, customs, politics, sightseeing, and you will learn to know the people of these countries well. You learn that people the whole world over are the same. They respond to a sympathetic and friendly attitude just as we all do. The question of who really benefits the most depends on how you handle your job. Your horizons are unlimited!
84