Hi. I’m going to check seat-belts once more and then go to my seat for the take-off.
Now that we’re at 8,000 feet and climbing steadily, Fd better get busy in the galley, the Purser will be making the service announcement soon and our guests’ appetites are going to be whetted. Come on along.
While Susan prepares for the liquor service, Fll prepare the canapes, and turn on the ovens so that they’re ready for cooking. Honestly, there are a hun-
dred things to remember when you work the galley. But don’t you fret! I remember that I was assigned to the galley on my very first flight after graduation. 1 was so nervous, I thought Fd be all thumbs. But then I said to myself, “Look, Carol, you’ve just graduated from the most exacting training school in the business. If Pan Am thinks that you can do the job, then you can do it. Besides, you have an experienced Purser and crew to back you up. You’ve cooked at home. The food is in there . . . the dishes are there . . . there are the ovens . . .”
Then, in a moment, my panic was gone and I found that, with a bit of direction from the Purser, cooking for 40 guests became as simple as cooking in my own apartment ... In fact, I think it’s even easier!
First of all, there are several different entrées available, and most of these are completely prepared and cooked, then f rozen, and held in lockers at zero degrees temperature until they are loaded into the Clipper galley.
For steaks, the procedure is a little different. Top grade steaks are cut and trimmed and then frozen for storage. In the galley, we cook them to order, rare, medium or well done, and we can do it in about seven minutes.
The roast beef is freshly prepared every day. Then it’s seared and cooked for about 15 minutes in the commissary. We complete the roasting in the oven.
I see by the entrée order the Purser’s just handed to me that we have 25 orders for Roast Beef. That’s about true to form, approximately 70 percent of our passengers prefer this to the other entrées. Now, the trick is to estimate the number of portions I can get from each beef. (We usually have two prime cuts of beef on board). Hmmm ... % inch slices . . . I’ll need the two roasts. One goes into the oven right now. Remember when I started the oven? Well, it’s up to the right temperature now. I insert the meat thermometer . . . and when it reaches “rare”, it should be done. Simple, eh?
I’ll wait another ten minutes before putting in the second roast. By the time the first one has been served, the other will be ready.
76