Chapter 15
YOU ARE PAN AMERICAN
Now that you have read a little about your company, what it does, where it goes, how it works, you will want to get into the fundamentals of our business . . . the things that affect you more directly.
The most important point you will have to keep in mind from the time you start training is that you personify Pan American. It is true that our customers do have contacts with Pan Am people, at the ticket office, on the telephone, at the airport, but they are with you for the longest period of time . . . the entire length of their trip. Therefore, the impression you make upon them ... how you handle their problems . . . how you serve them . . . how you appear in their eyes ... is, most times, the real and lasting impression that they get about the entire company. So you see, what you do ... on duty and off ... is very important to all of us. You are Pan American!
Because of this, we have prepared this section of the hook to help you prepare for your Pan Am career. We shall acquaint you with your job . . . with the things you might expect . . . and also the things Pan American expects of you as a member of its Flight Service group.
At social gatherings, have you ever noticed how much the sense of hospitality and enjoyment is heightened by the grooming, neatness and orderliness of the hostess? And have you not sometimes had the opposite reaction . . . when everything appeared to be going along smoothly but there was something — you could not quite put your finger on it — but something was lacking? Nine times out of ten, it is a combination of careless habits or untidy appearance.
Well, we know that there is a definite relationship between a well-groomed appearance and a well-groomed personality, and it is exemplified in good service aboard our Clippers.
A girl who knows that she is presenting her most attractive manner and appearance automatically gains confidence and adds to her charm. Her gestures are more natural. She is more tactful in her dealings with other people, and automatically refrains from doing many small things which may annoy her guests, because she knows that these things will detract from her well-groomed appearance and personality.
We cannot emphasize this enough. A neat, attractive appearance automatically gives one a “lift”. It creates a favorable impression and, unconsciously but very definitely, it reflects on the service to guests.
Neat, properly-fitted clothing . . . well-cared-for hands . . . teeth . . . hair . . . are imperative.
Because of this, Pan Am did a great deal of planning and had a uniform ensemble specially designed by Don Loper, world-famous Beverly Hills couturier. And the ensemble is not only attractively feminine, but it is also functional. Let’s turn the page and take a look.
57