YOUR HANDS
Your hands can tell a lot about you as a person. Everybody notices them, and your hands will bring nice notices if you take care of them.
Use a good hand lotion after every washing or contact with water. It softens the skin and cuticles.
Keep your fingertips free of stains and grime by a daily vigorous nailbrush scrubbing.
Fairly short, rounded nails are most practical for your work, and they also hold polish longer and are less likely to break. As in the case of lipstick, avoid the use of heavy and exaggerated colors such as lavender, orange, insipid pinks, irridescent and frosted colors.
Two thin coats of color dry fast, last longer. They also form a base that is easy to patch when the polish chips.
Gelatine dissolved in your breakfast fruit juice takes no time, and strengthens weak nails.
YOUR FEET
In flight you will be on your feet almost constantly, so special care is needed. Any girl on her feet for any length of time may notice a slight swelling of the feet, especially in flight where air pressure is reduced somewhat.
The first rule is to wear properly-fitting shoes and stockings.
Keep your toenails clipped . . . straight across. Cutting too far into the corners encourages ingrown nails. Bathe feet frequently, and scrub them well. To stimulate circulation, run cold and hot water over them alternately.
Always dry your feet thoroughly, for “athlete’s foot” disease thrives in warm humid environments.
A regular massage with cream will do a world of wonders for tired feet, followed by a sprinkling of medicated powder between the toes to absorb perspiration.
YOUR HAIR
Expert hair stylists will recommend styles becoming to your face and personality when wearing your uniform hat. As a matter of policy we require a style cut short enough to clear the collar. Besides, it is easier to wash, fast to dry and set, and altogether more manageable. Oh yes, one last thing, it must be of natural coloring. A typical style is shown above.
Some easy and practical tips to follow in care of the
hair are: Massage often, working hair dressing into the scalp with your fingertips. This whips up circulation, speeds the flow of natural oils, and lubricates the scalp.
Brush daily.
To liven up dry, dull hair, a cream rinse after every shampoo. Between shampoos, dip your comb in cream rinse to keep every inch of your locks pliant and make them obedient when you set them.
64