Tell you what. I’m going to be quite busy in here now, fixing the other entrées, vegetables, salads, soups. Why don’t you sit in the lounge and relax, then, when the meal service is ready, go to your seat and enjoy our First Class service? It’s one of the real great pleasures of air travel.
The roast beef is served from the rolling cart right at the passenger’s side. That way, he can order his portion rare, medium or well-done, and actually choose his own portion. I’ll join you later.
Enjoy the meal? Good!
All of the passenger’s appetites have been filled. The two infants have had their baby foods and bottles of warm milk, and they’re fast asleep in bassinets we have on board.
Oh, pardon me. The Purser’s beckoning. You know, he’s the one who is really the key to a happy flight. Because of his experience and knowledge, we look to him for leadership and advice. He’s in charge of our crew in flight, and guides us in our duties.
You know, with so many different passengers, there are just as many different problems brought aboard. At first, this scares you. But then you begin to realize that you try to treat them just as you would your own guests at home. You are the only one they can turn to for help. You get to recognize these problems . . , there’s the complaint about not enough food . . . the first flight passenger who’s a bundle of nerves and needs assurance . . . the old lady who doesn’t speak vour language and is bewildered . . . the traveler who demands extra service ... we learn to ease the problems the best we can, help everyone to enjoy their flight.
There are the little things we try to anticipate. For example, the retired couple in Row 15. He wants to take a nap, so I brought him a pillow and blanket, turned off the reading lamp and helped him recline his chair to a more comfortable position.
Then there’s the man who needed guidance in filling out his landing documents.
The man who’s worried that he won’t make connections for the continuation of his journey.
You know, I really should be thankful for these people with their problems. Before I started flying, I thought that I was mature . . . could handle most anything. But meeting and dealing with people whose habits, manners and sense of values are so different
77