Unique in world transportation, IATA has, in little over one decade, achieved a meeting of international minds on over 30,000 airline problems . . . from the standardized flight procedures used by all carriers on all international routes to the simplification of red tape required of both passengers and cargo moving between countries.
One ticket, a tidy booklet of flight coupons, will carry the air traveler through a score of countries, on 15 to 20 different airlines. A single baggage stub may send his suitcase around the world. One cargo air waybill can dispatch a crate of merchandise to the farthest corner of the earth.
IATA works with many governmental, business and international bodies all over the world. It also cooperates closely with ICAO. Through both IATA and ICAO, much progress has been made toward the eventual goal of a single worldwide Civil Aviation Authority .. . which will establish standard procedures and regulations for air transport between oil nations.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND TRAVEL
Pan Am’s revenue depends to a great extent, on the tourist travel and commerce carried on between the many countries we serve. Naturally, at this stage of your training, it’s impossible to go into a detailed study of the subject of international tourism and trade —but it is necessary for every Pan American employee to realize the importance of international practices and principles, in terms of our passenger and cargo business throughout the world.
Due to climate, geological conditions, economic development, and so on—many countries produce a surplus of one commodity (such as sugar, petroleum, beef, minerals, etc.) and . . . although rich in these products .. . are lacking in others necessary for their subsistence.
Surpluses must therefore be exported to those nations which need them . . . and, in return, the exporter must buy the products which it doesn’t produce itself.
OUR COMPETITION
One of the chief factors in the air transportation industry is the competition. In the early days, Pan Am did considerable pioneering of its routes throughout the world. In recent years, the competition on all of our routes is growing more and more severe. Many other carriers are being granted routes competing with those that we developed and pioneered.
Domestic carriers, with permits to fly from various inland cities in the United States barred to Pan American, have been granted rights to fly to cities in foreign lands which we serve . . . and more and more foreign
flag carriers are being given choice U. S.-overseas routes in direct competition with us.
Some of these foreign flag carriers do not subscribe to the IATA Tariff's, and are able to operate such flights at greatly reduced fares because of lower wage levels, use of older and cheaper equipment and the fact that corporation income taxes in their own countries are far less than are ours.
We have always been willing to face legitimate competition, and by offering better service, more efficient operations, and the most modern equipment, have maintained our position as the world’s leading airline. These factors we must continue, and even improve, to retain this leadership. However, we are also dependent on receiving equitable treatment in the granting of routes and permits, since these determine our future growth and revenue potential.
OTHER FACTORS
The economic stability and earning power of Pan Am depend upon a number of factors. In order to maintain and expand current operations, we must effectively sell our services to the traveling and shipping public . . . and we must deliver these services more courteously, efficiently and satisfactorily than do our competitors. To insure our future and the security of all of us, we must continue to grow. This growth is vitally affected by new routes we are permitted to launch, and by the routes granted other airlines in competition with us.
We have already mentioned that CAB, ICAO, IATA and other outside forces rigidly regulate rates, routes, etc. This means that there are only two ways in which we can meet and beat the competition . . . greater safety and better service.
We offer the highest standards of safety possible, coupled with the best service, the greatest speed and comfort.
The convenience of the public is frequently a deciding factor, such as the time of departure and arrival fitting its needs and desires. If it is a night trip, the majority of passengers would rather leave very late, than to arrive at an inconvenient early hour. If it is a daytime trip, too early a departure is a poor drawing card. Frequency of service is another factor.
Prompt, complete and courteous service on the ground before and after a flight, together with top quality of food and comfort in flight, and on-time arrivals and departures provide the best background to convince the public they should travel via Pan American.
49