CHARTER FLIGHT ... a flight in which the entire revenue capacity of the aircraft has been reserved for the exclusive use of one party. This applies whether the route flown has been established by a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity, or not.
CHARTER RATE ... the contract price agreed upon by the carrier and the charterer for the operation of a charter flight.
CIVIL AERONAUTICS BOARD (CAB) . . . a U. S. government agency which prescribes civil air regulations, certifies air transport companies, establishes rates and fares, and acts as a rule-making and investigative body.
CLAIMS . . . demand for payment by a client from a carrier, due to pilferage, personal loss, damage and/or injury suffered to self or belongings, during carriage as a passenger and/or a Clipper Cargo customer, or within the confines or the carrier’s premises, or ground jurisdiction.
CLEARANCE . .. the papers from the dispatcher or airport manager authorizing a flight.
CLIPPER CARGO .. . Airfreight sent via Pan American Airways.
CLIPPER CLUB ... a club consisting of people who are important to Pan Am. Clipper Club lounges are located at major airports and cities throughout the world for exclusive use by Clipper Club members.
COAT TAG ... a small tag, with identifying seat num her, affixed to the passenger’s coat and hat.
COCKPIT . . . the compartment forward, from which the flight crew operates your airplane.
COMMISSARY. .. the department which supplies cookery, equipment, food, cabin supplies such as magazines, blankets, head rest covers, life jackets, etc.
COMPONENT . . . in Pan American, a part of the company, but not a Division.
CONFIGURATION . .. the pattern of seats, cargo partitions, and other items that are specified for a particular airplane, flight, or type of service.
CONNECTING POINT .. . any point in the itinerary at which the passenger to be is to transfer from a flight of one carrier to a flight of another, whether or not a stopover or turn-around at such point is involved.
CONSIGNMENT . .. equivalent to the term, shipment, one or more pieces of goods accepted by the carrier from one shipper at one time and at one address, receipted for in one lot and moving on one air waybill to one consignee at one destination address.
CONTRACT . . . an agreement legally enforceable between two or more persons to carry out some purpose, i.e.: the sale of an airplane ticket for carriage to a future passenger.
CONTROL TOWER . . . traffic booth of an airport, manned by government personnel, which controls planes on the runways and within sight of the airport.
CO-PILOT... a licensed pilot serving in any piloting capacity other than as pilot-in-command, excluding a pilot who is on board the aircraft solely for the purpose of receiving flight instruction.
COUPON, FLIGHT .. . the portion of the passenger ticket that indicates particular places between which the coupon is good for carriage.
COUPON, PASSENGER . . . the portion of the passenger ticket that constitutes the passenger’s written evidence of the contract of carriage.
CREW.. . any person having duties on board or in connection with the flying or the safety of the flight of the aircraft, or employed on board in any way, in the service of the aircraft, the passenger, or the cargo.
CREW SCHEDULE SHEET ... a special form containing the projected schedule of crew members’ trips for each month, shows departure and arrival dates, trip numbers, flight times, etc.
CRUISING SPEED ... the speed at which an airplane may fly; not over 90 percent of its design-level speed. The most efficient and economic speed of flight.
CUSTOMS . . . import, export, excise and internal duties and taxes of all kinds.
DESTINATION .. . the ultimate stopping place according to the contract of carriage.
DISEMBARKATION ... the act of leaving the aircraft after a flight.
DISPATCH . . . the Department exercising operational control, the exercise of authority over initiation, continuation, diversion or termination of a flight; to ensure safe, regular, efficient and economical aircraft operations. Plans and monitors flights; calculates fuel loads; weights and balance.
DISPATCHER .. . in Pan Am, denotes the employee in charge of getting the Clippers off properly, or at the right time, according to schedule.
DISTRICT SALES OFFICE (DSO) ... a Sales Office which serves and controls a district, sometimes made up of several states, as in the United States.