
GROOMING
Very important to your personal health and wellbeing are the care of your skin, hair, feet and hands. And one phase of your basic training will he individual consultation with grooming experts who will recommend such things as the proper hair styling and makeup you should use. However, here are a few basic steps that should apply to everyone:
Care of Your Complexion. The best recommendations are to get plenty of sleep, fresh air and sunshine. Follow a balanced diet and drink lots of water, when at home. Also, don’t spare the water when washing!
In Flight, you may notice that your skin tends to dry more rapidly than usual. To prevent this, you might apply a moisturizer lotion with a lanolin content after bathing and washing.
Your Make-Up. Don’t overdo it. Correct shades of lipstick, rouge and face powder, applied properly, should emphasize your good features and minimize any defects. They should also contribute color and animation to your face.
MAKING-UP
Before applying make-up, use a moisturizer. It gives
Chapter 17
FOR FLIGHT
a glowy look and helps ward off tiny premature wrinkles and excessive dryness.
2.	Make up lightly.
3.	Eyes are next. Beware of eye cosmetics, eye shadow, mascara, etc., which create an exaggerated appearance and result in a “hard” or jaded look. With a pencil, lightly stroke the top of the eyebrow-arch. Lengthen the brow line with strokes that lead up or back, never down.
Use mascara sparingly. A little will darken the lashes and curl them slightly too.
4.	Lipstick. Avoid the use of heavy and exaggerated colors such as lavender, orange, insipid pinks, irri-descent and frosted colors which detract from the desired natural appearance. Lipstick that stays bright and fresh during flight is easy. Lirst, powder the lips, apply lipstick quite heavily, then blot and stroke on again. Pencil-like lipsticks are designed so that you can shape an even lip line.
Summary. In making-up, the contrast should never be too strong, never over done. And stay away from gaudy or unusual colors.
63