OTHER ECONOMIC FACTORS
Other factors which are peculiar to an international operation include changes in governmental policies; fluctuations on foreign exchange and restrictions; changes in tariff’s, quotas and embargoes; hostilities which may affect scheduled operations along a route, and strong competition from nationally-subsidized foreign flag carriers.
In all of these matters, the important thing to remember is that the business of air transportation is not a totally “free” enterprise, hut is subject to many regulations and restrictions ... all of which influence our activities.
INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION (ICAO)
Pan American, as an international airline, must obviously concern itself not only with U. S. laws, but the laws of many countries, in all parts of the world.
Before World War II, each country was considered to be the undisputed master of the air over it. This was generally known as the “closed sky” or the “sovereignty of the air” policy. The seas were considered free to all nations beyond the three-mile limit, but the air was not free, but international laws governing aviation were not standardized.
To correct this situation, the International Civil Aviation Organization, known as ICAO, was set up by those nations involved in world-wide air commerce.
ICAO was organized in 1947 as a specialized agency of the United Nations, with headquarters in Montreal, Canada. By 1958, membership in ICAO totaled 71 countries, including some which were not members of the United Nations.
The objectives of ICAO are to set up standards, practices and procedures designed to ensure the safety, regularity and efficiency of international air transportation. It is governed by an assembly composed of one representative of each member nation, meeting at least once annually. The executive body, the Council, is a permanent body responsible to the Assembly and composed of twenty-one contracting states elected by the Assembly for a three-year term.
INTERNATIONAL AIRTRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (IATA)
The commercial airlines themselves organized the International Air Traffic Association in 1929. Later, in 1945, this was re-formed as the International Air Transport Association—or IATA—to make sure that their own interests and needs would be given full representation and consideration. IATA is a voluntary association made up of many of the world’s airlines. It deals with such matters as international air traffic problems; standardization of equipment; aviation research; uniformity of procedures and documents; etc.
One example of IATA’s work is the IATA Clearing House in London, through which all member airlines settle accounts for interline revenue transactions. It enables them to collect and pay their world-wide debts simultaneously ... by a single cash figure . . . and to do so either in dollars or convertible sterling, regardless of the number of national currencies involved. In this manner, IATA’s Clearing House assures rapid settlement of interline accounts, eliminates a great deal of correspondence and paper work, and saves the airlines considerable foreign exchange expense.
Pan Am is a participating member of IATA and complies in every respect with the recommendations and rules established for all members. For example, fares and rates we charge conform with similar services made by all other member carriers. These fares and rates are known as the IATA Tariff. (Not all airlines are members of IATA, nor do they comply with the Tariffs and other IATA rules and regulations).
48