Of course, the total amount of lift depends on such factors as: Speed . . . any increase or decrease of air over the wing will change pressure (or vacuum) and thus change the lift.
Density . . . more lift is obtained in denser air, just as your body receives more lift when swimming in salt water than in fresh water.
You can see from this that the airplane has lift only when the wing moves with speed through the air. To move the wing at high speed, the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper is equipped with four powerful jet engines, each delivering 18,000 pounds of thrust. This thrust is provided by the force created in the engine. The Jet Engine is a simple affair and to understand how it runs, let’s review the theory. The engine is based on Sir Isaac Newton’s Third Law of Motion, which states that for every action or force in one direction there must be an equal force or action in the opposite direction.
Take, for example, a child’s balloon and blow it up. The air inside is trying to escape. If you let go of the stem, air rushes out, seeming to push the balloon ahead. Actually, it’s the air left inside, pushing in an opposite direction from the stem, that’s moving the balloon.
Of course, with a balloon, all the air eventually
escapes and it loses its forward motion. If you could keep supplying air to the balloon, it would keep moving. That’s essentially what happens inside a Jet engine.
Air is brought in continuously through the front of the engine and passed on out through the rear. To build up pressure, this air is first compressed by the whirling blades of the compressor. It is then mixed with kerosene which ignites in the two combustion chambers.
The mass of hot, expanding air escapes through the tailpipes, and for every pound of thrust that rushes out the tailpipes, there’s an equal pound of thrust pushing the plane ahead.
Thrust is created with piston-engined planes by the spinning of the propellers. The propeller is used as an airfoil, too. It has a special shape that uses the air. It bites into the air, catches some and pushes it back. This pulls the airplane forward, giving it “thrust”. This thrust may be varied by changing the speed, or the pitch (angle of attack) of the propeller blade.
Opposed to thrust is another force . . . the force of drag. “Drag” is created by the sticky quality of air. Some of the air particles try to grab and hold the airplane passing through it. If drag is too great, the airplane can’t fly.
JET ENGINE
The first Jet Clippers were powered with Pratt & Whitney J-3 engines. Air is pulled in at the front (left in picture) compressed, mixed with fuel, burned, passed through turbines and exhausted aft. An improved version of this same engine used in the Intercontinental Jet Clipper, bears the number J-4.
TURBOFAN ENGINE
In the Turbofan—this one is the Pratt& Whitney JT3D (TF33) —a set of fans pulls in and pushes back additional air which flows around the engine, in addition to that which passes through the turbines. The fans here are forward; left in the photo. Moving more air at lower speed and lower temperature, the Turbofan gets more thrust with less fuel, thus increasing both speed and range, plus a dividend of quieter operation.
22