GLOSSARY
ACL ... See ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD.
ADVANCE PASSENGER NOTICE (APN) ... a form used to relay specific information about a passenger, or group of passengers, concerning special handling, special dietary requirements, language problems, etc.
AGENT ... a person authorized to act for, or in place of, another, by authority from him. One entrusted with the business of another: the international air travel agent who is entrusted with the handling of Pan American air travel business.
AILERON ... a small appendage to the trailing edge of the wing on an airplane, operated by the pilot, giving him control of the rolling movements of the aircraft.
AIRBORNE .. . carried by air. Used also when a plane has just left the runway in flight; wholly free from contact with the ground and supporting itself in the air.
AIR BRAKES ... the pitch of the propeller blades can he reversed so that they push, instead of pull, against the air. On jet aircraft, “reverse thrust” of the engine is used to cushion the landing and make the landing run shorter. Of course, all aircraft also have wheel brakes.
AIR CARRIAGE . . . equivalent to the term, air transportation, example, Clipper Cargo shipments, or passenger flights.
AIR SPEED . . . the speed at which the plane is moving through the air. It may be more or less than the plane’s speed in relation to the ground.
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (ATC) . . . the agency or “tower” which controls aircraft for take-offs and landings.
AIR WAYBILL . . . equivalent to the term “Air Consignment Note.” The document entitled, “Air Waybill/ Consignment Note,” made out or on behalf of the shipper, which serves as a contract between the shipper and carrier for carriage of goods over routes of the carrier.
ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD (ACL). . . the maximum safe amount of weight which is allotted for passengers, cargo and mail.
ALLOWABLE USEFUL LOAD (AUL) . . . the actual weight which can safely be added to an empty plane (gasoline, oil, flight crew, food, supplies plus passen gers, cargo and mail).
ALLOWANCE, FREE BAGGAGE ... the weight of baggage which may be carried without payment of a charge in addition to the fare.
ALTIMETER ... the instrument used to measure altitude while flying.
ANNOUNCEMENT HANDBOOK ... a handbook, issued to all Flight Service personnel, containing all inflight announcements in English and appropriate languages.
APPROACH PATTERN ... a standard routing prescribed by Air Traffic Control for guiding the aircraft to the runway without interference from other traffic, under either contact or instrument flying conditions.
AREA SALES OFFICE ... a Pan American Sales Office, under the control of a District Sales Office (DSO), and serving a smaller area.
ASSOCIATED COMPANY ... a company that cooperates with Pan American by agreement. Usually, Pan American owns a part of their corporate stock.
ATLANTIC AREA . . . formerly an operating division of Pan American World Airways having jurisdiction over Pan Am operations in a certain geographical location of the world; namely, British Isles, Ireland, Europe, Africa, Near and Far East. Now a part of the Overseas Division.
AUTOMATIC PILOT . . . keeps plane on a predetermined course at a desired altitude.
BABY KIT ... a kit containing most items necessary for infants in-flight. Example: baby foods, canned milk, disposable diapers.
BAGGAGE, ACCOMPANIED . . . baggage carried on the same aircraft as that on which the passenger is carried.
BAGGAGE, CHECK ... those portions of the ticket which provides for the carriage of passenger’s checked baggage and which is issued by the carrier as a receipt for passenger’s checked baggage.
BAGGAGE CHECKED . . . equivalent to registered luggage, means baggage over which the carrier takes sole custody and for which the carrier has issued a baggage check and baggage claim tag.
BAGGAGE EXCESS . . . that part of the weight of the baggage which is in excess of the free baggage allowance.
BAGGAGE, HAND . . . hand luggage, baggage car ried by the passenger onto the plane.
85