Chapter 2
SPANNING THE WORLD
A general description of the network of routes, offices and Associated companies comprising the Pan Am System
As you work within Pan Am, and as you study and prepare for your job as a Stewardess, you’ll see that Pan Am is a complex organization composed of many elements . . . people . . . airplanes . . . sales offices . . . airport facilities . . . and a great many more. All of these elements, perfectly coordinated, blended together, make up Pan Am’s transportation network ... a vast network that literally spans the world.
In just a few decades, Pan Am has grown from an airline flying a 90-mile route between Key West, Florida to Havana, Cuba, to a world-wide organization with 69,921 miles of air routes reaching 79 lands around the world! Between our passenger, mail and cargo activities, a Pan Am Clipper takes off or touches down in some part of the world on an average of every two minutes ■—- twenty-four hours a day!
PAN AMERICAN'S DIVISIONS
An operation as vast and complex as ours . . . embracing the entire world in its scope . . . must obviously be well organized in order to function properly. For this reason ... so as to achieve the highest possible level of efficiency and coordination . . . Pan Am’s transport activities have been divided into geographical areas, with the Pacific and Atlantic areas comprising the Overseas Division (OD), and the Caribbean, Central America and South America comprising the Latin American Division (LAD).
LAD
Oldest from point of service is our Latin American Division {LAD) whose first venture was the pioneering Key West to Havana airmail flight in 1927. Along with Pan Am’s Associated companies, LAD serves the whole of the western hemisphere, from the United States southward. From gateway cities in the U. S., LAD Clippers fly to points in Mexico, Central America and
South America.
Pan Am flies along the east coast of South America, linking routes with those of our Associated company, Panagra, which flies the west coast of South America. Other Associated companies in the area are a part of the Pan American Airways System.
LAD’s headquarters is located in Miami, Florida.
San Antonio Palopo, by Guatemala’s volcano-ringed Lake Atitlan. Our Clippers connect Guatemala City (GUA) with major cities on all six continents.
8