Chapter 8
PAN AM SYSTEM STRUCTURE
A brief explanation of the over-all functions of the Pan Am System
The world we fly over is large . . . for that reason, and because we rely on special local knowledge of the man on the spot, permitting us to act with flexibility and rapidity to meet new and changing conditions, we have divided the world into geographical areas represented by the Operating Divisions: Latin American and Overseas.
In addition to these, we have Associated companies in various parts of the world; a Guided Missiles Range Division; and the Intercontinental Hotels Corporation.
Naturally, all of the practices, policies and activities of these various components must be coordinated . . . welded into the overall picture . . . with all pulling together as a team. In order to do this, to organize the Pan American System as a whole, providing us all with the millions of tangible and intangible things needed to run a successful world airline, we have the following general organizational lines.
THE STAFF COMPONENTS
This makes it possible to preserve for the company the benefits which accrue to a large company in terms of centralized services and facilities, without sacrificing the flexibility of decentralization.
In the Staff components are key management people who develop the policy and philosophy, procure the money, provide certain services common to all Divisions . . . and furnish the leadership that keeps Pan American strong and healthy! They’re no “ivory tower”, head-in-the-clouds type of management. They’ve lought and won a lot of tough battles — for low Economy fares — for Fly Now — Pay Later flights — for programs that make air travel a dream the average man can buy . . . and for new routes which keep us growing.
Basically, we could say that the chief functions of the Staff Components are PLANNING, ADMINISTRATION, COORDINATION and OPERATING. Let’s take a look at what this entails and how it is accomplished.
At the top of the organization of the Pan American Airways System, of course, are the owners . . . over 40,000 large and small stockholders who have invested their capital and employed all of us to conduct a service which is in the public interest, is useful to others, and produces a fair profit for the owners.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Naturally, these thousands of individual owners cannot be expected to actually run the airline. Therefore, each year, they hold a Stockholder s Meeting at which they elect a Board of Directors to manage the business. The members of the Board, are men of varied backgrounds, some of whom come from within our company. All have the necessary business experience and world wide contacts to provide a wealth of practical knowledge.
The Directors are responsible for setting the overall policies of the company. In addition, one of their chief responsibilities is the selection of a company President . . . the man directly accountable to the Board of Directors and, through them, to the stockholders.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Between the Board of Directors and the President, however, there is an Executive Committee made up of some of the members of the Board of Directors. This committee helps to coordinate matters ot Pan American policy and administration.
THE PRESIDENT
The President, who is the Chief Executive, has duties that are system-wide. He administers policies for the entire Pan American network, and is responsible to the stockholders, through the Board of Directors, for all the operations of the System.
37