Chapter 21
PAN AM SERVICE
From time to time, you may be asked what difference there really is between Pan American’s service and the service of our competitors. The reason we have the edge over our competition is quite simple, even though our equipment is the same, and we all fly under strict I.A.T.A. regulations. Whether British, French, German, Belgian or Japanese, our competitors limit themselves to a nationalistic concept of service. Pan Am does not. As hosts to the world, our service is international in feeling and purpose.
We are prepared, for example, to give the American everything he has been brought up to expect in the way of food, service and atmosphere. We are also prepared to serve a Chinese-style omelet for breakfast to Hong Kong passengers; to serve Hindus, who eat no meat, a vegetarian diet. Of course, as our competition does too, we are prepared to serve a Kosher meal; sugar-free food to a diabetic; and fish on Fridays.
Our objective is to make all of the world’s diverse people — regardless of origin, customs or religion — feel completely at home and at ease on our flights.
This objective stems from the character of our food service, the international background of our flight service group, and the nature of our operations throughout the world.
YOUR ROLE AS HOSTESS
We have always prided ourselves on the fact that we recognize each passenger as an individual; one who has chosen to fly with us because flying with us is more than just getting to a destination faster. It is more like being invited to a friend’s home.
No matter whether First Class, or Economy, passengers are all treated with equal hospitality ... as guests who come to visit us for a few hours.
You will find that our guests are like anyone else . . . pleasant, unpleasant, finicky, easy-going, demanding, irritable, happy, unhappy, short, tall, fat or skinny . . . they are human beings!
Your job is to make them feel at home, provide for their comfort, see that they have enough to eat, just as you would do at home.
You have been chosen because we feel that you meet our rigid requirements. You have passed the first tests . . . you are one of three out of every hundred applicants interviewed, and you have joined other girls from 37 different countries around the world, combining the best of international skills, attributes, experience and linguistic abilities.
Your next step is the intensive training course where you will learn all of the intricacies of high-speed aircraft familiarization, operations, schedules, etc. You will learn all of these things, plus more — so that you can answer questions and help our guests with their problems.
You will learn to recognize that our guests have their own individual problems. Right from the start, you will work under simulated flight conditions, in a Jet Clipper “mock-up”. You will learn to reassure our guests . . . to anticipate their needs ... to explain what is going on . . . making them feel at home . . . making them comfortable . . . bringing the same elements to your job as you would to entertain at home.
You will also become expert in the art of preparing and serving meals and, as any good hostess, you will be
83