Chapter 4
TODAY'S CLIPPER FLEET
A general description of the aircraft currently in use on Pan American Airways routes.
The use of the word “Clipper” to designate Pan Am’s fleet of aircraft derives from the early clipper sailing ships. The first clipper ships originated in the United States, in the early 1830’s, and were the fastest ocean-going vessels of their time. Like Pan Am’s modern Clippers of the air, the early clipper ships traveled the lanes of commerce to all the far places of the world . . . to Japan ... to Australia . . . and, in the days of the great gold rush, from America’s east coast, around Cape Horn, South America, to California.
Our current equipment . . . the Clipper fleet of the Twentieth Century . . . consists of the finest commercial aircraft ever developed—aircraft that have helped us establish an unparalleled record for safety, speed and service.
In all of our airplanes, passenger and crew compartments (as well as most of the cargo compartments used for livestock) are maintained at just the right pressures and temperatures, both inflight and on the ground, by modern air conditioning and pressurization systems.
On our Jet Clippers, at flight altitudes up to 20,000 feet, the cabin pressure can he kept at normal sea level atmosphere. Even at an “over the weather” altitude of 40,000 feet, the cabin pressure can be kept at a 7,000 foot atmosphere, insuring a completely comfortable flight.
The following pages have been prepared to give you some idea of the planes you’ll be flying in . . . what they look like, seating arrangements, passenger and baggage loading facilities, cargo handling methods, and so on.
On the following pages are layouts of these airplanes, including typical configurations (seating plans), basic facts and figures. The more you learn about them now, the more you’ll know about them when you go through training. Then, you’ll be prepared to answer any questions a passenger might ask about our Clipper fleet.
(Note: For complete, accurate, up-to-date information on all Pan Am airplanes — including facts such as configurations in each Division, entrance locations, emergency exits, seat numbering, etc., Pan Am’s “General Schedule” can be consulted.)
Ï7