ITINERARY. .. this refers to the sum of all portions of travel over all carriers, from the point of origin to final destination of the passenger—all or part of which is by air.
JET OVEN ... The oven used aboard our Clippers to cook meals for our First Class and Economy passengers. Normally used at 550°F, but could be set as high as 700°F.
JET STREAM ... a huge whirl of air circling the globe from west to east. Its course varies from 25,000 to 50,000 feet above the earth’s surface. Planes flying within it may sometimes add as much as 200 miles per hour to their normal cruising speeds.
KILOGRAM(S); KILOS ... a thousand grams; equal to 2.2046 pounds.
KNOT... a measure of speed, one knot being a speed of one nautical mile per hour.
LATIN AMERICAN DIVISION (LAD).. . one of the
semi-autonomous divisions of Pan American World Airways having jurisdiction over Pan Am operations in a certain geographical location of the world; namely, the U. S. gateway cities to Mexico, Central and South America, and the Caribbean.
LAYOVER . . . the period of rest given to crew members at crew-change points.
LEG . . . the space between two consecutive schedule stops, or between two stopover points on a flight or itinerary.
LET-DOWN .. . to land or to prepare to land, or the period during which flaps are lowered etc. to prepare to land.
LIFT . . .a term for the forces acting upward on the bottom of the wing of a plane while in flight.
LINK TRAINER ... See SIMULATOR.
LOAD FACTOR.. . ratio of a plane’s payload to its capacity.
LOAD, FULL.. .weight empty plus useful load; also called Gross Weight.
LOAD LIST (COMMISSARY) ... a list of all items put aboard by Commissary for Flight Service in-flight use.
LOAD, PAY.. . the capacity available for sale for the transportation of passengers, baggage, mail and freight.
LOAD, USEFUL... See ALLOWABLE USEFUL LOAD.
LOCAL STANDARD TIME ... the time observed locally (except where, or when, Daylight Savings Time is in effect).
LOG ... a written record, either computed or observed, of navigational data; a record of a pilot’s flying time; an operational record of an aircraft or its engines.
MACH NUMBER... the relationship of the speed of any moving object to the speed of sound.
MAGAZINE BAG ... a special bag used for the carrying and storing of magazines carried aboard each airplane.
MANIFEST .. . an invoice of the ship’s cargo, to be shown at the Custom House.
MEAT THERMOMETER ... a thermometer which is inserted into a beef roast to more accurately judge cooking time.
MERIDIAN .. . an imaginary line passing through the North and South Poles forming a great circle on the earth’s surface.
MIAMI OVERHAUL BASE (MOB)... Pan American’s maintenance base located in Miami, Florida. It is the largest such base in the aviation industry.
MILES, NAUTICAL . .. the unit of 6,080.2 feet for measuring distances. For practical purposes, a minute of latitude may be considered equal to a nautical mile.
MILES, STATUTE ... the unit of 5,280 feet for measuring distances.
MOB ... abbreviation for MIAMI OVERHAUL BASE.
MOCK-UP . . . a replica of the jet airplane interior, complete with galley. It is used for Flight Service training.
MONOPLANE .. . an airplane with one pair of wings.
NAVIGATOR . .. the member of a flight crew who maps the course of a plane, checks its location in flight, plots changes in course, etc.
NEW HORIZONS .. . the title of a Pan American motion picture, used largely for training and orientation purposes. Also the title of a best-selling travel guide to countries other than the U. S. and Canada, published by Pan American’s System Sales Promotion Department.
NO-SHOW ... a passenger who fails to use reserved accommodations for reasons other than mis-connection.
NON-SCHEDULED FLIGHT... a flight over a route which has been established by a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity or its equivalent—but which is not to be operated at regular intervals, and is not an extra section.
NOTAM (Notice to Airmen) ... a notice, containing information concerning the establishment, condition or change in aeronautical facility, service, procedure or hazard, the rapid distribution of which, to personnel concerned with aircraft flight operations, is essential for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft.
OFFICIAL ABBREVIATIONS ... the code for an airline used in the “via carrier” box on tickets. Usually longer than the two-letter code used as a reservations code.
90