Chapter 7
FLYING FUNCTIONS
A brief discussion of the duties and responsibilities of those people engaged in Pan American's inflight operations.
In previous chapters, we considered such matters as the geographical scope of Pan American’s activities; the types of aircraft we use and how we use them; and the functions of Pan Am people who work at the many airports along our routes.
Now, let’s take a look at those people who are charged with one of the most exacting of all airline responsibilities—flying our planes.
THE FLIGHT CREW
Pan American Airways was the first airline to develop the multiple Flight Crew as we know it today— that is: each member with his duties clearly defined, but all functioning as a well-coordinated team.
Naturally, the exact make-up of each crew for each flight may vary, depending on the type of aircraft, length of the route, etc.
The organization and assignment of Flight Crews for specific trips is determined by the Division Operations Manager, through his Scheduling Section. These assignments must at all times conform with government Civil Air Regulations, as they apply to the route or routes to be flown.
COMMAND AND FLIGHT RESPONSIBILITIES
The Captain of each Pan American flight has full command responsibility for his crew from the time the crew reports for duty, prior to departure at the home base, and continues until return to the home base. The
Captain has full command responsibility of the aircraft from the starting of the first engine until the engines are stopped after landing. On arrival at an airport, control of all matters pertaining to ground handling of the aircraft and its load transfers automatically to ground personnel authorized for such duty.
Should the Captain become disabled, the First Officer assumes command. Should the First Officer become disabled, the next senior pilot of the crew takes over, and so on.
FLIGHT SERVICE
Complementing the Flight Crew, is the Flight Service Crew, of which you will he a member. You, and the other members will have the responsibility for seeing to the comfort and convenience of our passengers throughout the flight -—- as well as during stopovers or unexpected delays enroute.
Your many duties will include the serving of meals, distribution of pillows and blankets, checking of personal belongings, care of children and infants, and assistance in passenger loading and disembarking procedures. Essentially, your job is the most important from the passenger point of view. You are the one with whom the passenger will spend the most part of his time, and it is up to you to make him feel at home and completely satisfied with Pan Am’s personalized service.
Now, let’s look at a picture story of a typical flight crew, flying a Jet Clipper.
33