OFFICIAL AIRLINE GUIDE (OAG) ... a monthly publication listing schedules of the world’s scheduled airlines, indexing cities, etc.
OFF-LOAD ... all passengers, cargo and/or mail removed at in transit stations which are destined to other stations.
OPERATING LOAD . .. the combined weight of gasoline, oil, crew members and supplies needed for the flight.
ORIGINATING STATION ... the airport at which a particular flight starts, or originates.
OUNCE(S)... a weight of one-sixteenth avoirdupois, equivalent to 28.35 grams.
OUTSIDE SALES . .. that portion of the DSO which is responsible for the development of passenger and cargo sales. Outside salesman takes the Pan Am story to businessmen; works with Travel and Cargo Agents.
OVERSEAS DIVISION . . . one of the semi-autonomous divisions of Pan Am, having jurisdiction over Pan Am operations in the geographical areas of the former Atlantic and Pacific-Alaska Divisions.
OVERWEATHER .. . the modern practice of climbing up above turbulent air or cloud layers near the surface of the earth to fly in the smooth upper air.
PACIFIC AREA . . . formerly an operating division of Pan Am having jurisdiction over Pan Am operations in a certain geographical location of the world; namely, Alaska, the islands of the Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, and the countries of the Far East and Southeast Asia. Now a part of the Overseas Division.
PANAMAC.. . an electronic device designed to handle all facets of air travel. Located in the Pan Am building in New York City, it accords instant availability and will confirm all space on Pan Am, other airlines, hotels, car rentals etc. It maintains all reservation records, thus allowing every Panamac office access to all reservations booked by Pan Am anywhere in the world.
PARTICIPATING CARRIER . .. any carrier participating in the transportation of a passenger or cargo.
PASSENGER (PAX) ... any person, except members of the crew, carried or to be carried in an aircraft with the consent of the carrier.
PASSENGER TRAFFIC MANUAL (PTM)... a manual prepared by the Traffic and Sales Department, containing passenger traffic rules and regulations.
PASSENGER, TRANSFER ... a passenger arriving on one flight and continuing his journey on another.
PASSENGER, TRANSIT ... a passenger continuing his journey on the same through flight.
PASSPORT ... a formal document issued by a state officer to a citizen of the state, certifying his citizenship, authorizing him to leave that state and requesting protection for him abroad.
PAYLOAD .. . the capacity available for sale for the transportation of passengers, baggage, mail and freight.
PILOT-IN-COMMAND ... the pilot responsible for the operation and safety of the aircraft during flight time.
PITCH ... the action which occurs when the nose of the airplane moves up or down.
"POLAR" ROUTE ... a coined word for Great Circle flights, generally arcing over or toward the polar areas. Example—a Great Circle route from Los Angeles to Europe or Seattle to Tokyo.
PORT OF DESTINATION ... a place predetermined and selected by a passenger for travel and/or by a shipper for the carriage of cargo for delivery by carrier by air.
PORT OF ORIGIN .. . an airport or place from which passenger travel and/or a shipment of merchandise originates for carriage by a carrier.
PRESSURIZATION . . . the system for maintaining conditions of pressure within an airplane closer to sea level conditions than to the “thin” atmosphere outside while at high altitude.
PTM .. . abbreviation for Passenger Traffic Manual.
PURSER .. . usually the most senior member of the Flight Service Crew. Is responsible for the Flight Service Crew following correct procedures. He makes the decisions on time of meal services, revisions in service, etc.
PURSER BRIEFCASE . . . the briefcase issued to all Pursers. It carrier many items for in-flight passenger use.
RADAR . . . electronic equipment which projects a picture of weather conditions, terrain, airplanes, or other equipment on a “screen” for identification and observation of their position.
RADIO BEAM ... a radio code signal sent out continually by a directional radio transmitter on the ground and aimed along the airway. By listening to the signal, the captain can tell whether he is exactly on course or to the right or left. Also, by means of an Automatic Direction Finder receiver, the radio signals cause an indicator to point directly to the ground station.
RADIO ILS .. . see Instrument Landing System.
RAINBOW SERVICE . . . the designation used by Pan Am to identify its Economy Class service.
RAMP ... the area of an airport where planes are parked, loaded, serviced, etc. Also the passenger stairway between ground and the main cabin door.
RANGE ... the maximum distance an aircraft can travel under given conditions without refueling.