Chapter 13
OUR CUSTOMER RELATIONS
A discussion of the importance of good relations with our passengers and cargo shippers, in terms of upholding and building Pan Am's reputation for superiority
Whatever your specific Pan Am job may be, never forget that the success of our company is based on one main factor—a satisfied customer:
... an air traveler who is more enthusiastic at the end of his trip than at the beginning.
... a cargo shipper who, after dealing with Pan Am wishes to deal with us again.
Creating this kind of feeling—the right “customer climate”—is the primary responsibility of the Traffic and Sales Department, but it is also the job of every member of the Pan Am team . . . a job based on successful customer relations.
Technically, our relationships with our customers can be divided into two areas: OFFICIAL and PERSONAL. Of course, there’s no specific dividing line and many responsibilities overlap—but each area contains aspects that concern you directly, as an employee of Pan American.
OFFICIAL RELATIONS
In rendering international air transportation service, Pan Am is considered a “common carrier”. The prices charged for the services we offer are known as “rates” or “fares” . . . and our price lists are called “tariffs”. These tariffs outline in detail the conditions under which traffic will be accepted and carried . . . what services will be performed . . . and what liability the company accepts.
Pan American tickets and air waybills are our “contracts” . . . agreements which are a protection to the customer and an obligation to us, in performing our service.
A ticket is a “contract” with a passenger—showing that his or her passage has been paid for. It represents money—and should be handled as such. But the fare
collected for a ticket never becomes income for Pan Am until the transportation has been completed. The money represented by the ticket is always at the disposal of the passenger until he has actually traveled .. . and a ticket refunded is a lost sale.
When we sell a ticket, we complete a contract for the carriage of that passenger over the routes for which the ticket is issued. In addition, the ticket serves as:
... a record and a receipt for the passenger.
... a reservation (when validated) for a particular flight at a particular time.
... a record for our accounting department.
... a record denoting which carriers are liable, in case of accident.
An air waybill, for cargo shippers, is equivalent to a ticket for our passengers. Remember that a man shipping a package is as much a customer as a man who travels personally. Every cargo shipper is also a potential passenger—and his opinion of Pan American as a whole will be based on his experiences with our Clipper Cargo activities.
This air waybill is our “contract” with a cargo customer. It is a legal agreement between shipper and carrier for transportation of a specified cargo over the routes of the carrier concerned.
The development of the air waybill was a Pan American “first”. This unique document was designed to overcome many of the problems encountered by businessmen and others who ship by surface methods. Shipping cargo by surface carriers involves many complicated documents, bills of lading, customs forms, etc. But, by Clipper Cargo, almost all of this paperwork can be handled on one air waybill—simply and concisely-saving our customers a great deal of unnecessary work.
51