DIVISION ... a semi-autonomous operating component of Pan American Airways having jurisdiction over Pan American operations in a geographical location of the world; example: Latin American Division, Overseas Division.
DOCUMENT(S) . . . equivalent to a record; a paper that gives information or evidence. For example: Air Waybill, Consular Invoice, Passport, Health Certificate, etc.
DRAG . . . the retarding force caused by friction, this friction varies with the amount of resistance created. This is the reason for streamlining.
DRY STORES . . . provisioning items, such as canned soups, cream, crackers, olives, tea bags, carried aboard each flight for meal service.
ELEVATORS . .. control surfaces hinged to the trailing edge of the stabilizer (horizontal section of the tail assembly). Controls the pitch, or the movement of the nose up or down.
EMBARKATION . . . the act of going on board the aircraft.
EMPENNAGE ... the rear, or tail section, of an airplane.
ESTIMATED TIME OF ARRIVAL (ETA) ... the estimated time at which the pilot of an aircraft expects to arrive at a given destination as based on calculation from known factors.
EXCHANGE ORDER ... a document issued by a carrier, or its agent, requesting issue of an appropriate passenger ticket and baggage check or provision of services to the person named in such a document.
EXCOR ... a designator used to indicate “extra courtesy” to be given to certain passengers.
EXTRA SECTION ... refers to an additional aircraft that has been assigned to operate over the route of a scheduled flight—and as closely as possible to the time of the scheduled flight, is employed to meet the demand for additional space on the particular flight involved.
FA A .. . See Federal Aviation Agency.
FARE .. . the amount charged by a carrier for carriage of a passenger and his free baggage allowance over the route specified. (See Allowance, Free.)
FARE, ADULT ... the fare of a person who has attained his twelfth birthday.
FARE, CHILDREN . . . the fare for a person who has attained his second but not his twelfth birthday.
FARE, ECONOMY . . . the fare established by I.A.T.A.
for Economy Class service.
FARE, FAMILY... a special fare for families of two or more members. Less than the normal first-class fare for the same people traveling individually.
FARE, FIRST CLASS .. . is equivalent to the term standard class fare; the minimum fare established for a first class service.
FARE, INFANT. . . the fare for a person who has not attained his second birthday.
FEATHERING A PROPELLOR ... turning the blades of a propeller so that the blade edge is presented to the wind, thus decreasing resistance and stopping rotation.
FEDERAL AVIATION AGENCY . . . The agency responsible for the U. S. airways system.
FEE, CANCELLATION . . . See Charge, Cancellation.
FERRY FLIGHT... used to denote a flight operated mainly for convenience of the carrier, to transfer equipment and personnel from one point to another. Only Company employees, their dependents, or Company cargo may be taken aboard such flights.
FLAP .. . an auxiliary airfoil usually hinged or pivoted to the trailing edge of the wing. Its purpose is to increase lift, or reduce speed in landing.
FLIGHT . . . used to denote the routing over which the aircraft will fly. It is usually accompanied by a number or other symbol to designate the particular movement involved. (See Trip.)
FLIGHT AND GROUND SERVICE LOG ... a log which is completed by the Purser for each leg of a flight. It provides a means of reporting on passengers, meal service, equipment, handling of passengers, etc.
FLIGHT ENGINEER . . . the member of the flight crew who is responsible for the pre-flight maintenance of the aircraft and for proper functioning of the aircraft in flight.
FLIGHT NUMBER ... equivalent to the term line number; the numerical designation of a flight.
FLIGHT PATH ... the path of the center of gravity of an aircraft with reference to the earth.
FLIGHT PLAN ... a listing of route, altitude, and elapsed times from check-point anticipated in advance of flight and planned so as to take advantage of the most favorable winds and smoothest altitudes.
FLIGHT SERVICE BRIEFING ... a pre-flight meeting at which information regarding passengers and inflight services is passed on to the Flight Service crew by the Briefing Supervisor.
FREIGHT. . . all goods carried for remuneration other than mail and excess baggage, whether on freight or express tariffs or special contract.
88