Chapter 14
THE WHOLE WORLD OVER
The importance of the individual in the operation of a world-wide transportation network . . . the importance of individual responsibility, or "professional proprietorship", on the part of each employee.
In a previous session, we mentioned that the product which we produce is “space” ... or the “revenue capacity of an airplane.” But it is more than that. It is the quality of our product that sets us ahead of our competition.
The quality of our product is made up of many different things . . . our equipment . . . our routes . . . our experience . . . our organizational facilities. But, more important than anything else, the quality of our product depends on you. It depends on what you know about your job . . . and what you feel about your job . . . your pride in Pan American ... in our product ... in yourself; the sense of satisfaction you get from doing your job.
Now, working for an international airline isn’t an easy job. From the moment a customer picks up a telephone or walks into a Pan Am Sales Office, until we wave a friendly goodby, or until his Clipper Cargo shipment is delivered on time and safely ... in Bangkok, Beirut or Buenos Aires ... he and his problems are in our laps. Multiply this customer by hundreds of thousands ... or add up the millions of passenger or cargo ton-miles we fly each year . . . and you can see how many headaches there can be.
But, that’s what we’re in business for ... to provide safe, economical and convenient air transportation to people all over the world.
The air transportation industry is on the verge of a number of spectacular revolutions that we, in the past, have helped to bring about. More people are flying to more places than ever before. The potential of air cargo has only begun to be tapped . . . and the jet age is here.
There’s going to be an increased need for air travel . . . a bigger market . . . and more competition. Our product is going to have to continue to be the best there is. And you, the most important element of our product, will have to be the best there is, too.
That is why it is important to you, right at the beginning, to understand that what each one of you does is very vital to our continued leadership.
In a complex organization such as ours, with the pressures of day-to-day . . . even minute-to-minute . . . work, with the difficulty of seeing how what one person does in one place can have drastic effects thousands of miles away . . . you can see how important your
pride in the company and in your job, and your personal responsibility for our product is to each of you.
But, it is easy to see that our product is what it is because you and the rest of your fellow-employees are what you and they are.
In previous chapters in this book, we’ve tried to give you an understanding of what our product is . . . how it’s been developed . . . how working together helps us to meet the standards of quality we have to meet. But all of this would mean very little unless we understand that Pan Am is what it is because of what each of us gives to it.
Now, all of us at Pan Am lead busy lives. It’s natural, we are part of a big, fast-moving organization. Our jobs are complex, demanding, generally interesting, sometimes exasperating, and it takes a lot of concentration and attention to detail to get them done.
In the face of daily pressures, surrounded as we are with the responsibility of getting the job done, it’s quite easy to lose sight of what all of this activity leads up to, and easy to lose sight of what the effect of our individual job performance has on Pan Am, our customers and ourselves. And this means everyone . . . the girls who type the letters from Lisbon to Singapore . . . mechanics in Monrovia or in Quito, Equador . . . maintenance men . . . weather men . . . pilots . . . navigators . . . accountants . . . engineers . . . radio men . . . baggage men . . . people in reservations, scheduling, purchasing, flight service.
The very nature of our business rarely allows us time to sit back and take a look at one essential fact— we at Pan Am owe our growth, our present position, 'and our future prospects — to our own ability to provide a high quality product to meet customer’s needs.
All of this adds up to one indisputable truth: The product we produce is what it is because each of us gives a great part of himself to it. This gives us a feeling of being a part of it, and it is a part of us. This, in turn, means that each of us has a right to a feeling of “professional proprietorship” in Pan American. The development of such a feeling means that we must show a greater individual responsibility and creative effort, placing our company in a stronger competitive position, giving our customers better service, and assuring future growth for us all.
55