OD
The Overseas Division is composed of two distinct areas. The area of the Pacific is covered by our routes from the United States west coast to the Orient, to the Central Pacific and to the South Pacific, winging southward to Australia and New Zealand. Another branch heads northward to serve the State of Alaska. There are also flights over the Polar Route, providing direct
service between the United States west coast and Europe.
Our routes over the Atlantic link the United States with Europe, Africa, India and the Near East, connecting with the Pacific area routes to form a round-the-world network.
OD’s headquarters is located at Idlewild International Airport in New York.
INTERNAL GERMAN SERVICE (IGS)
Pan American operates an air service linking the principal cities of West Germany with Berlin. The service was inaugurated in 1946 by the then American Overseas Airlines (later merged with Pan American) under the quadripartite agreement at Potsdam which guaranteed the Big Four powers free access to Berlin. This service at first connected Frankfurt with Berlin, gradually being expanded to include service between Berlin and Hamburg, Frankfurt, Hanover, Düsseldorf, Bonn-Cologne, Stuttgart, Munich and Nuremberg.
Pan American (also British European Airways [BEA] and Air France) flights funnel through any of three carefully defined 20-mile-wide corridors from West Germany through East Germany to Berlin. BEA for the British Government and Air France for the French Government serve virtually the same cities as Pan Am through the corridors: however, some of their flights originating in Berlin continue to London or Paris, whereas Pan Am flights feed into our trunk routes at Hamburg, Düsseldorf, Munich, Stuttgart and Frankfurt. Major lift is carried by Pan Am amounting to two-thirds.
Approximately 1000 Pan Am people are engaged in keeping this vital air service alive and all have a keen
pride in being a part of this important lifeline to the Free World. Flight Crews for the IGS are based in Germany, Pilots, and Engineers mainly in Frankfurt and the Stewardesses in Berlin.
The Internal German Service is part of the Overseas Division and Berlin is one of the top stations in total passenger revenue in the Division. IGS operates 64 flights a day in and out of Berlin and carries approximately 120,000 passengers each month.
Stuttgart
LIFELINES TO BERLIN . . . This diagram shows the three air cor* ridors that serve as lifelines from major West German cities to the beleaguered city of West Berlin.
9