Chapter 1
NEW HORIZONS
The story of Pan Am and its people
From the beginning, there has been no limit to what mastery of the air could mean to our daily life. And men and women who have understood this have, in a little over thirty years, met the challenge by their pioneering in air transportation.
People with a common purpose, in many countries of the world, stand and work side by side, playing a key role in our past history, making the present possible. These people are your fellow-employees of Pan American Airways. They, with every major stage of development, have gained the knowledge and experience without which we couldn’t operate a world-wide airline.
EXPERIENCE
In our advertising, we use the slogan, “World’s Most Experienced Airline.” The key word of this slogan is ‘Experienced.” The root of the word “experienced” is from the Latin peritus, meaning a trial. To this has been added ex, so that the combined word means, “out of trials.” Its meaning very clearly implies knowledge gained out of trials. Or, “knowledge gained through one’s own acts.” It is something we have gained right from the beginning, and have continued to gain.
We are proud of our slogan, and have a right to be—we know that it has real substance and backing. Experience is the lifeblood of the company.
In your future with Pan American, you’ll benefit from the many years of experience of your fellow-employees and, as you become experienced, you’ll pass your knowledge on to others.
THE BEGINNING
The Pan American story began in 1927, when Juan Terry Trippe, and eleven others, made plans for an international air service in the Caribbean area.
Newly-formed Pan American Airways, Inc. had an air mail contract — Key West to Havana. In a space of a few weeks, a mudflat became an airfield; facilities
and hangers were built; red tape cleared away. There were twenty-four employees with a single purpose — dedicated to meeting the challenge of air transportation across the sea. The Pan Am fleet consisted of three brand new Fokker F-7 airplanes, planes with three engines, flight range 100 miles . . . ships of wood and fine-stretched linen, with flotation gear on the wings.
THE CARIBBEAN: A TESTING LABORATORY
October 28, 1927 was the big day ... it was only the beginning ... on the world globe, the Caribbean looks small. Yet, in our early years, it was an immense operational testing laboratory. A water-filled bowl between two continents, dotted with large and small islands, some close together, some hundreds of miles apart. Here, on a condensed scale, were all the problems that an aspiring world air leader could meet.
In spreading our wings beyond Havana, we learned the logistics of growth, building up experience in overseas operations.
New routes to the south were surveyed and put into operation. They presented new problems — landing sites. Learning from experience, we decided that amphibious airplanes were needed —- planes that could operate in land airports, or “make their own airports” on water.
With the amphibious planes, we spread our routes to Mexico, Central America, to The Antilles, as far south as Dutch Guiana. Pan American became a system in the true sense of the word.
SOUTH AMERICA
In a few short years, it became apparent that Pan American was becoming established in the world of international air; knitting together far-separated countries with its thread of routes. We entered into partnership with W. R. Grace and Company, forming Pan-agra, establishing air service down the west coast of South America. By 1930, we completed the air encircle-
5