Through the years, engineers have worked constantly to reduce drag. They’ve learned to make the surfaces smoother, so that air will have nothing to stick to when it passes over it. They’ve retracted landing gears after take-off. They’ve designed wing flaps, which give the airplane greater lift, that can be pulled back into the wings and so reduce drag. Of course, drag increases with the velocity, density of the air and the area of the aircraft.
CONTROLS
Because the airplane must move up and down through the air, as well as turn one way or another, certain controls are necessary. For example, when an airplane turns in the air, it must do what pilots call “bank.” If it didn’t bank, it would skid . . . just as a car skids on a level highway when it turns too sharply. This is due to another force called centrifugal force.
Road builders understand centrifugal force when they build highways with the outside of a curve higher than inside. The controls that cause banking and turning, ascending and descending, or keeping the airplane level, work because they use the forces of air. They work because they alter or change the shape of the airfoil (the wing).
IN FLIGHT
The plane, in flight, can rotate about its center of gravity in three directions. The imaginary line which it rotates is called the axis. These three motions or directions are roll, pitch and yaw.
The roll occurs when one wing goes down and the other wing goes up. It is controlled by means of control surfaces on the trailing edge of the wing, called ailerons.
The pitch occurs when the nose moves up or down. It is controlled by means of elevators hinged to the trailing edge of the stabilizer (horizontal section of the tail assembly).
The yaw occurs when the nose moves right or left. It is controlled by use of the rudder (the vertical section of the tail assembly).
SPACE-OUR PRODUCT
Now, let’s consider how our Clipper fleet is put to work.
All of us are aware that our company is in the air transportation business . . . but some may not realize that we — like many businesses — create and sell a product. The product our company sells is called space. It can be defined, for our purposes, as the revenue capacity of any given plane. That is: the passenger seats, or other physical area inside the plane that can be sold to our passengers and cargo shippers.
This commodity of ours—space—has special sales features which help to build Pan Am’s unmatched reputation as the “World’s Most Experienced Airline”. Among these are our standards of service . . . safety . . . efficiency . . . and speed. Each of these features adds to the value of the space we sell . . . but, since space itself remains our basic commodity, it’s important for us to know something about how we produce and control it.
To begin with—every airplane is obviously limited as to the amount of weight it can actually lift off the ground.
Another limitation is the amount of physical space that can be used inside the cabin. Actually, only a small part of an airplane’s total weight and total space can be used as revenue load, or “payload.” The weight that can be carried depends on many factors—such as the type of aircraft, the length of the flight, the airport and runway conditions en route, weather conditions, and so on.
Since these factors vary, the load-carrying capacity for each type of aircraft—and each flight—must be worked out with great care . . . allowing at all times for a very wide margin of safety. Our superb record depends to a great extent on these loading and operational regulations. Following them “to the letter” is the responsibility of every member of the Pan American organization.
ALLOWABLE USEFUL LOAD
Each of our aircraft has a set limit on the maximum amount of weight it may carry at the time of take-off. This limit is certificated by the U.S. Federal Aviation Agency, and is known as the GROSS TAKE-OFF
23