Make sure that the luggage you select is sturdy, with strong locks and hinges.
A WORD OF CAUTION: In event of a lost bag, your Pan American System Insurance covers only those items necessary for the flight. In other words, jewelry and other items are not covered.
PACKING
1.	Stuff bodice and sleeves of dresses with small, soft items. Fold back sleeves and sides of skirts. Fold again at waist line.
2.	Place skirt hems at one end of case. Turn side panels in over soft items. Flip back into the case over a rolled sweater.
3.	Fold blouses at shoulders with sleeves underneath. Put first blouse at one end of case and the next at the other end.
4.	Roll lingerie and sweaters. Place shoes, books, heavy clothing on bottom, along the hinge side.
Upon arrival at the hotel, it is a good idea to hang suits and dresses over a tub of steaming water to remove wrinkles — or use a damp clothes brush.
Before leaving, check carefully for forgotten items under the bed, in closets, in the bathroom. It is also a good idea to have your suitcase ready the evening before, but leave it open.
WHEN ON A TRIP
Eating
Good, nourishing meals. It is always best to eat a good, nourishing meal before reporting for a flight. This will remove the temptation to “nibble” during flight, which could be bad for your figure and also could interfere with normal bodily function.
Foreign Foods. Naturally, in your travels, you’ll be experiencing many varieties in foods. When it comes to exotic foods, or those with which you are unfamiliar, experience is the best teacher, but go easy in the beginning, at least. Don’t overdo! Balance your diet.
* Stay away from milk, butter, beverages with ice cubes, in places where sanitary conditions are questionable.
Sleep
Plenty of sleep. The amount of sleep required varies with each individual, but remember — you cannot regain lost sleep. Eight to ten hours are recommended before and after a flight. On short lay-overs, arrange your sleep so that you are well rested for the continuation flight.
Weight
Keep your weight steady. Don’t put on pounds and then try to lose them fast. If you must lose weight, stay away from “starvation” diets. Combine a sensible diet with exercise such as those we have recommended on pages 61 and 62.
66