PAN AM TIME TABLE PUBLICATIONS
There are several basic reference publications which list our routes and schedules—as well as the routes and schedules of Pan Am Associates, connecting U. S. domestic airlines, etc. These are:
1—’The Pan Am System Time Table
2	— The General Schedule
3	— The Official Airline Guide
4	— The ABC World Airways Guide
The Pan American Airways System Time Table is our “quick reference” source of general travel information . . . and is available to all Pan Am customers, at travel agencies, airports and our own DSO’s. It contains information on passenger fares; departure and arrival times of Pan Am and Associate flights; Pan Am’s principal cities, offices and airports; time zones and route maps. Since every Pan Am employee is a representative of the airline as a whole, it’s vitally important for you to be able to read the time table correctly, and understand all the symbols used.
The General Schedule contains information on all the services operated by each carrier of the Pan American Airways System, as well as Associated carriers.
This publication should always be used when authoritative information is needed regarding flight departures and arrivals. Other schedules, such as the Pan Am Time Table, should be used ONLY for immediate reference and general information. The General Schedule is bound in loose-leaf form, so that it can be kept constantly up-to-date, by means of revision sheets.
The Official Airline Guide contains the latest schedules, maps and fares of all the principal airlines throughout the world — as well as information on air express, air mail, and travel requirements for every major carrier. The Official Airline Guide is preferred for U. S. domestic flights, inter-line connections, etc.
The ABC World Airways Guide also contains up-to-date information on all airline schedules, requirements, etc. — and is of particular value for data on international flights.
Again, however, it is important to remember that the information in both of these guides is general informa-
tion. Whenever called upon to quote authoritative information on Pan Am schedules, be sure to refer to the Pan Am General Schedule.
SYSTEM TIME TABLE
PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
44