ALLOWABLE USEFUL LOAD (AUL), we will have our revenue load—the actual amount of weight left over for passengers, cargo and mail. This residual space is known as our ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD (ACL).
It should be remembered that the weight of the fuel — part of our OPERATING LOAD — will vary with each flight, depending on the distance to be flown. When more fuel is required for a portion of a trip, because it is a longer flight, the increase in the OPERATING LOAD naturally results in a decrease in the ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD (ACL).
This ALLOWABLE CABIN LOAD is Pan Am’s “payload” . . . the commodity which we can sell on each flight, in the form of passenger seats and cargo space. The successful utilization of this space . . . that is: our ability to get maximum revenue from it ... is the job of Pan Am’s Sales Offices and Reservations Control Centers in each Division.
WEIGHT AND BALANCE
It’s important to keep in mind that all our calculations regarding AUL and ACL are based on sound principles of weight and balance. In other words, be-
sides determining how much weight a plane may carry, we must also determine how that weight should be distributed.
In a properly loaded airplane, with fuel in the wing tanks, and with a normal load in the cabin and cargo holds, forces of air acting upward on the wings are met by fairly equal and well distributed forces acting downward.
Without this proper distribution—for instance, if we overloaded the fuselage and left our wing tanks relatively empty — the lack of balance would put undue stress on the wings, weakening them structurally.
A plane in normal flight, with a correctly balanced load, cruises efficiently and safely. If incorrectly loaded, the plane will be made tail-heavy or nose-heavy. It will require extra power from the engines and will operate less efficiently. Poor loading is dangerous, especially on take-offs, where maximum power is needed.
This is why, at all our stations, operations works carefully with Pan Am’s Weight and Balance manifests . . . to make sure that our ACL is not only utilized fully —but distributed properly and safely.
25