PAN AM'S KITCHENS
Seating
The seats are narrower than those in First Class, and are six abreast, three on each side of the aisle. They are equal to the best in the industry. Those on the 707 Jet Clippers were especially designed to Pan Am’s exacting specifications.
Meal Service
Delectable and nourishing hot meals featuring a variety of meats, with salad, dessert, coffee, tea, milk or mineral water, are all provided free of charge.
Bar Service
A full range of alcoholic beverages, wines and champagnes, are available at nominal charges. Soft drinks are complimentary.
Passenger Diversions
As in First Class, most magazines and newspapers, writing materials and childrens books are available. Baby kits and bassinets are also carried.
DUAL CONFIGURATION
Most Pan Am flights are “dual configuration” flights. This means that Pan Am Clippers provide separate cabins for First Class and Economy Class service aboard the same airplane. Each cabin section has a separate galley to serve its particular class of service.
Quite frequently, you’ll be assigned to one section for your main duties, but may have to help out in the other section, particularly during the meal service. You may go from one class of service to another, but I.A.T.A. regulations prohibit entry of Economy Class passengers into the First Class section. This rule applies to all airlines belonging to I.A.T.A.
In addition to the many Pan Am flight kitchens throughout the world, two huge frozen food kitchens, one at Idlewild Airport in New York and the other in Paris, have been set up to prepare, in advance, the various elements of our entrées for Overseas Division First Class and Economy Class flights. There are smaller frozen food kitchens at San Francisco and Seattle.
The commissaries in New York and Paris are supervised jointly by Pan Am and Maxim’s of Paris—world renowned for fine food.
Frozen entrées are shipped from the frozen food kitchens, in refrigerator units, to various distribution centers across Europe and Asia, and held there for use when needed. In the Overseas Division, there are 28 provisioning points where fresh foods for salads, etc. are prepared.
The Latin American Division has its own commissary facilities to provide meals on its flights. It has 22 provisioning points.
THE JET CLIPPER GALLEY
In case you have been wondering how it is possible for us to serve so many people in such a small, compact space in a limited amount of time, don’t worry. Our engineers worked with the aircraft manufacturers and came up with the most efficient and practical galley possible.
First of all, we have two galleys on our Jet Clippers. There is one in the forward, and one in the rear section of a Dual Configuration Jet Clipper.
With both galleys in use, we can provide a fast and efficient meal service which still leaves ample time for personalized service to our guests.
Tray carriers are refrigerated, ensuring freshness of salads and other perishable items. This also means more versatility in foods we can offer.
69
