Chapter 5
THE THEORY OF FLIGHT ... and SPACE, OUR PRODUCT
An explanation of the theory of flight and the terms, Allowable Useful Load and Allowable Cabin Load, as they are applied to Pan Am's transportation activities.
Now that we’ve learned something about our planes and their performance capacities, let’s see what makes them fly . . . and then we’ll consider how we put our Clipper fleet to work.
Very often, we hear someone speak about the “miracle of flight.” Actually, a miracle is an event contrary to the laws of nature . . . and an airplane flies because it obeys the laws of nature, so you can see, it isn’t a miracle.
THE AIRFOIL
Basically, all that it takes to rise into the air and move through the sky at speeds up to 600 miles per hour (963 km.) is the proper flying shape, known as the airfoil. The airfoil is the shape you’d see if you took a cross-section of the plane’s wings, ailerons, vertical stabilizer and rudder, horizontal stabilizers and elevators.
The airfoil is like a flattened teardrop. The rounded edge is called the leading edge of the airfoil because it enters the air stream first. The tapering edge is the trailing edge.
THE AIR
If you can think of the air as something as solid as water, you can visualize the leading edge of the airfoil splitting the air stream, causing air to go over and under it.
Remember, air has weight ... a cubic yard of it weighs about two pounds. It is made up of several elements, chiefly nitrogen and oxygen, both invisible gases. You can see air only when it contains particles which are really not a part of it — dust which makes haze, and moisture which creates fog.
Air is everywhere around the earth . . . like a great blanket. We call it the atmosphere. It is like an ocean. We live on the bottom of this sea of air and the airplanes fly through it. There are currents in the air
ocean . . . the winds. The air ocean is about ten miles in height and is thinner at the top than it is at the surface of the earth.
Air is fluid ... it flows as water flows in a stream. Air hates to be crowded . . . when it is compressed, it will try to escape to the nearest place where there is less crowding. Air again is viscous, or “sticky” . . . particles of air will try to stick to anything that passes through it. These simple facts about the air are the A.B.C.’s of understanding the theory of flight.
WEIGHT, LIFT, THRUST AND DRAG
There are four forces acting on an airplane in flight. They are weight, lift, thrust and drag.
Let’s assume that a Boeing 707 Jet Clipper is ready to take-off into that invisible air ocean we’ve been talking about. One thing holds it on the ground . . . its weight . . . 316,000 pounds, fully loaded with passengers, cargo and fuel! This is the number one problem of flight . . . sheer weight. Before an airplane can fly, it must create another force stronger than the force of its own weight.
That force is called lift. The airplane gets its lift from its efficiently-designed wing, or airfoil . . . designed to get useful force from air flowing around it. Lift is produced in this way: when the wing is moved through the air rapidly, and is tilted at a certain angle, the “angle of attack,” the air divides and flows around it. The bottom of the wing pushes down on the air. The air resists crowding and pushes back. This develops part of the lift, but most of the lift comes from the top of the wing. The top of the wing is curved in such a way that when the air flows over it, a partial vacuum, creating a low-pressure area, is formed above the surface of the wing. The air below the wing, therefore, having a normal, or slightly higher-than-normal pressure tries to move upward into the low-pressure area. The wing, however, lies between these two areas; consequently, an upward pressure is exerted upon the wing.
21