In a few weeks time Pan American's part in the military airlift had become greater than its regular commercial service in the Pacific. Giant four-engined Clippers roared out over the Pacific to Tokyo from the West Coast on schedules so frequent that it tested the mettle of Pan American's men from offices of the vice president down to the most junior mechanic on the maintenance staff.
But the company's regular flights did not suffer too greatly. Full commercial schedules were maintained. These regular passenger flights were loaded. Vacationers who had planned their holidays months before were crowding into Hawaii. War correspondents, battle-front photographers from the photo syndicates and magazines, were flying to Tokyo on hasty schedules. Businessmen were continuing essential trips to the Orient and South Pacific.
PAD, with 15 years of flying the Pacific, and with key staffs of men trained in this operation, both in the piloting of planes and in the maintenance and manifold jobs necessary to keep planes flying, was ready for the military call when it came.
Immediately after the summons it began assembling a special air fleet for the lift operation. By the end of July this fleet consisted of 24 four-engined aircraft, operated by Pan American as a prime contractor to the Military Air Transport Service.
At the height of the airlift Pan American was operating 10 planes from its own fleet, including two Strato Clippers, and 14 planes from the fleets of four subcontracting airlines. The sub-contracting lines were American Airlines, Eastern Air Lines, Capital Airlines and American Overseas Airlines. AOA furnished one double-decked Stratocruiser plane.
In charge of the MATS airlift was a PAD pilot, Captain Henry C. Kristofferson.
An Air Force reservist, he had been called into service earlier in the year as a Brigadier General.
Other divisions of Pan American World Airways, the Latin-American and Atlantic, shared in the airlift by contributing Clippers, both cargo and passenger, and crews to operate them. Basil Rowe, the senior PAA pilot on the airlift, was called from the Latin American Division.
Pan American's activity in the lift was headed up by Admiral John H. Towers, PAA Vice President, in New York.
First call for PAA planes came on June 29. These were to carry vital cargo to the war theater. In succeeding days the calls came with mounting frequency.
The military asked for the greatest number of planes possible, for carrying both carg>and personnel.
18 -