On February 21, 1950, after flying from Los Angeles in one of PAD's Strato Clippers, Captain S. D. "Dent" Terrell commanding, the Board of Directors of Pan American World Airways arrived in Honolulu.
They were to hold the annual Board meeting in Hawaii - the first ever held in the Pacific. Among the 19 in the group were top-level leaders of scores of the nation's foremost business corporations.
Heading the group was PAA President Trippe. Among the directors was General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff of the United States Army during World War II, U. S. Ambassador, Secretary of State, author of the Marshall Plan, and called back to duty in 1950, U.S. Secretary of Defense.
Aboard this special flight, in addition to Mr. Trippe, were: Directors Prescott F. Bush, Sherman M. Fairchild, John W. Hanes (past director), David S. Ingalls (since retired), Robert Lehman, E. C. McDonnell, Mark T. McKee, Admiral W. H. Standley, Vernon F. Taylor; Vice Presidents the late Howard B. Dean, Admiral John H. Towers, Samuel F. Pryor, Harold M. Bixby, Henry J. Friendly, Franklin Gledhill, Harold E. Gray (then in charge of the Pacific-Alaska Division); and H. Preston Morris, Secretary and General Attorney.
At San Francisco, on his return from the Board of Directors' meeting in Honolulu, President Juan T. Trippe pointed out a new factor in American travel overseas.
He said American tourist dollars spent abroad are a major factor in European recovery and the development of Marshall Plan objectives. He said that two million Americans traveled abroad in 1949 and spent one billion dollars. He pointed out that a billion dollars in tourist money is equivalent to the same amount of Marshall Plan money.
On March 1, 1950, the man who had almost literally built the first airway across the Pacific returned to the Pacific-Alaska Division as vice president.
Colonel Clarence M. Young, a flyer in World War I, had been one of the true pioneers in commercial aviation. Back in 1926 - in the days before the Civil Aeronautics Administration and Civil Aeronautics Board - he had been appointed Director of Aeronautics for the U.S. Department of Commerce. Later he became Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Aeronautics. In those two posts - from 1926 to 1933 - he had been instrumental in planning and starting the network of airways across the United States.
Colonel Young served with PAA from 1935 until 1945, when he left the airline to serve as a member of the CAB* Later he was appointed General Manager of Los Angeles Airports, resigning that post to return to PAA.
16