In the short space of three weeks Pan American stepped up aerial service in the Pacific at the fastest pace since the original China Clipper spanned the ocean for the first time.
Strato Clipper service to Tokyo was inaugurated October 17, 1949, as a start. In the week beginning November 1 of the same year, the big airliners were put on more runs. Double-deck Clippers started service between Portland, Seattle and Hawaii.
They were launched on twice-weekly flights between the mainland and Manila. The fast-flying Boeings clipped 10 hours off previous flying times to the Philippines.
Direct service from the U.S. to Singapore was re-inaugurated with one DC-4 Sleeperette Clipper round-trip weekly between Manila and the Straits Settlements capital. Singapore flights connected at Manila with double-decked Clippers to and from the mainland.
The fourth major advance in the period was the extension of Clipper service from Calcutta to Hong Kong and elimination of a long layover in Calcutta. This, coupled with Strato Clipper service on the Tokyo and Manila-West Coast runs, sped up around-the-world flights by more than a day.
In fact, on December 7, 1949, Pearl Harbor Day, Thomas Lanphier, Jr., a wartime fighter ace, landed in New York after flying around the world over PAA routes in 4 days, 23 hours, 47 minutes for the 20,000-mile circuit.
As 1950 dawned on the world - the half-century mark - aviation in the Pacific was continuing to expand.
Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland and Seattle began the second half of the century as major aerial gateways to the Pacific and Orient.
By the end of 1949 Pan American’s total of revenue passengers in the Pacific had gone up 20 per cent in a two-year span. Passenger miles flown in the Pacific-Alaska Division were up 23 per cent over the same period. In 1949 Pan American carried 125,659 passengers on its Pacific routes.
But the sharpest increase came in Clipper cargo traffic. The Pacific-Alaska Division carried 9,829,182 pounds of revenue cargo during 1949. That represented a remarkable increase of 287 per cent in a period of two years.
Air cargo was coming into its own as a standard means for transporting regular merchandise over thousands of miles of ocean, instead of limiting the service to emergency shipments.
14 -