a fortnightly frequency. Service to the Orient was then as follows:
A Boeing B-314 service to Manila every two weeks, which went on to Singapore.
A Martin M-130 service to Manila every intervening two weeks, which gave weekly service between San Francisco and Manila. And then a weekly service by the S-42B Clipper between Manila and Hong Kong, connecting with each of the San Francisco-Manila flights.
On September 8, 1941 application was made for the inclusion of Suva as an intermediate point on the South Pacific route between Canton Island and Noumea, and this was authorized on October 16, 1941.
On December 7, 1941 Pan American planes and bases in the North and South Pacific became military objectives.
When the first Japanese bombers began their raid on Pearl Harbor, the Anzac Clipper, enroute from San Francisco to Honolulu, was just one hour out from Pearl City. News of the actions was radioed to Captain H. Lanier Turner in accordance with a predetermined code. The message determined the emergency plan Captain Turner was to follow. Landing safely at Hilo, Turner and his crew of ten prepared the Clipper for her return flight to San Francisco and took off the same night. The return flight was made without incident.
When the first shock of the attack on Pearl Harbor was over, Pan American personnel and equipment were made available to the Navy to assist in the emergency. December 7, at 7:30 a.m. enemy bombers began their runs over Pan American, Navy and Marine Corps installations at Wake Island and continued throughout the day. Within five minutes, hotel, stockrooms, and radio installations were knocked out. All living quarters and facilities were machine-gunned beyond use. Nine of the Pan American staff of sixty-six lay dead. The Philippine Clipper which had departed Wake at sunrise for Guam was recalled to evacuate the American PAA contingent. This it did. They arrived in Honolulu at 6:00 p.m., December 8.
Four hours after the assault on Pearl Harbor, Pan American's base at Guam was attacked. Japanese aircraft from nearby Rota and Tinian islands, then Japanese possessions, bombed and machine-gunned the PAA compound in waves, destroying the company-operated hotel, and crew quarters, and igniting aviation gasoline and oil. Barges, radio station, and homes were riddled with machine-gun bullets. Two company employees were killed and several injured by the first wave of strafing planes. All American employees were captured later by the Japanese and imprisoned in Japan for the duration of the war.
Six hours after the assault on Pearl Harbor came the first raid on Hong Kong. Seven planes operated by CNAC, Pan American's affiliate in China, were crippled and hangars were damaged. The Clipper Hong Kong, a Sikorsky S-42B which was used on the Manila-Hong Kong service only, scheduled for a return flight to
7