the Pacific. One by way of Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Calcutta and the other via Manila, Bangkok and Calcutta. By either route, the actual travel time required from San Francisco or Los Angeles to New York was less than one week.
Two events during 1948 proved particularly significant.
One was the inauguration of Clipper service from Seattle and Portland to Honolulu and thence to the South Pacific, the Orient, and around the world.
The second was the growing tension in war-torn North China. With the evacuation of Americans in areas threatened by the Communists becoming daily more imperative, the Pacific-Alaska Division resumed the role it had played during the war. All scheduled return flights from the area were filled with wives and children of U.S. businessmen and the company stood ready to add extra flights to assist in the movement from China, but this did not prove necessary.
With the beginning of 1949, the Division concentrated on the arrival of the first of the biggest, most luxurious aircraft ever seen in the Pacific - the Boeing 377 double-decked Strato Clippers. Since early in 1948, crew members and mechanics had been training in the use of these sky giants and when the first Boeing, christened the "Clipper America", was delivered on January 21 everything was ready for one of the most intensive promotional campaigns in airline annals.
This program took the big airplane to nine western cities and Honolulu on a series of public inspections and courtesy flights and gave 110,102 persons an opportunity to know the Strato Clipper, inside and out.
The actual inaugural of the double-decked Clipper service from the mainland to Hawaii (April 1) consisted of a combination press and commercial flight from San Francisco to Honolulu and Los Ahgeles, then back to San Francisco.
A large part of the service performed by the Strato Clippers is told in figures that covered the operation period of May and June. They revealed that the company ran what was virtually an air lift operation to strike-bound Hawaii. A total of 7106 passengers were flown over PAA's U.S.-Hawaii routes during the two-month period. But the biggest chore was the speedy delivery of fresh fruit and produce to the Islands. During the two months, the new planes carried a total of 123,942 pounds of cargo between California and Hawaii. It included eggs, butter, lettuce, celery and fruit.
Twice-weekly service between California and Tokyo by the new double-deck Clippers was inaugurated October 17. The new service was preceded by a special survey flight that left San Francisco September 23, 1949. It marked the first time the new planes flew to the Orient. When the double-deck Clipper Southern Cross landed on Tokyo's Haneda airport it was the largest passenger plane ever to visit Japan. The 300-mph plane followed a course to Tokyo by way of Honolulu and Midway with a flight time of 25 hours and 30 minutes - nearly eight hours faster than the time required with the use of DC-4 equipment.
- 13 -