In personnel, military specialists were the first to be flown out. The first passengers to be flown back by Pan American were wives and dependents of Army men In Korea, Including the widows of the first men killed In combat.
PAA had to add men to operate Its share of the lift. A call went out for 144 experienced PAA pilots who had been furloughed In January.
At PAD's San Francisco headquarters base activity hummed at concert pitch. Operations men put in 17 hours a day adjusting to the new demands. Extra mechanics and ground crew men were hired for the increased load. Operations men were assigned to the MATS base on continual duty to help in the dispatch of the PAA contract Clippers on the lift. Extra commissary men, mechanics and ground crews were added to existing staffs at Hawaii, Wake Island and Tokyo.
Trunk telephone lines and teletype circuits were set up between PAD headquarters and the MATS base for constant communication. Security measures were put into effect to protect against attempts at sabotage and to prevent information useful to the enemy from filtering out.
On June 30, 1953, third anniversary of the project, MATS was able to lift some of the security restrictions on this information. Soldier mail and whole blood, jet fighter crews and major generals, steel-helmeted GI's and VIP's of the entertainment world, winter clothing and aircraft engines were some of the routine cargoes of the longest civil airlift in history.
Not so routine was "Operation Fox Peter", a pioneering flight of the Air Force's Strategic Air Command which proved that its fighter forces could be deployed on a global basis not in weeks and months but in a matter of days and hours.
In "Fox Peter", for "Fighters, Pacific", alone the civil airlift moved the entire 31st Fighter Escort Wing, including its spare engines, ground personnel, tools and even its records by air from Albany, Georgia, 9000 miles across the United States and the Pacific. In a few days it was fighting in Korea.
Three months later, the entire operation was repeated when this Wing was brought back and replaced by the 27th Wing from Texas.
As in World War II when PAA delivered badly needed shell fuses across the Atlantic and Africa to help Field Marshall Montgomery at El Alamein, so, in the Korean war, crises showed the airlift at its best.
One of these came when the UN forces, hard-pressed by Red armor, were retiring toward Pusan. At Travis Air Force Base, West Coast terminal for the airlift, a Pan American Clipper one evening was ordered to taxi to the "security area" where highly classified cargo was stored. The Clipper was loaded in secrecy and took off.
19 -