The contract operations continued until July 31, 1944, after the Japanese had been driven from the Aleutians and the threat of an attack on the U.S. West Coast had been dissipated. During the 23-month period the Alaska sector carried 77,150 passengers and more than 3,170,000 pounds of cargo, including such high-priority shipments as a 2360-pound engine for a torpedo beat, penicillin, blood plasma, V-mail, crane parts, machine guns, radios, diving equipment, fishing gear, life rafts and aircraft engines.
At first, flights were only as far as Kodiak, but in April, 1943, in preparation for the campaign to drive the Japanese out of the Aleutians, the contract service was extended to the Aleutian bases of Dutch Harbor and Adak.
In addition to the scheduled service to the Aleutians, PAA made several special flights to the Point Barrow region where the Navy had undertaken a survey of undeveloped oil resources. On these pioneering trips, the aircraft landed on the polar ice cap on snow which had been packed down by tractors. During one flight, crews reported a temperature of 67 degrees below zero.
Shortly after the Navy contract was completed in 1944, PAA was asked to set up regular charter service from Fairbanks to Point Barrow, carrying mail and supplies to the Seabees stationed there.
Immediately after the war, in Alaska as well as in all the rest of the world where Pan American carried the U.S. flag, the first demand of the public and of the U.S. government was for re-establishment and expansion of passenger and air mail service facilities. This included rapid improvement of service to the people of Alaska.
First step in bringing the benefits of mass air cargo to the Territory was taken in April, 1945, when PAA instituted a special commodity rate covering shipments of furs from Alaska points to Seattle. This valuable cargo had been moving by ordinary parcel post on surface transportation, taking as much as 70 days. With Pan American's new commodity rate, fur literally began flying and shippers were enabled to catch markets at their most advantageous moment.
In March, 1946, commodity rates on fresh foods were instituted, and for the first time in their lives, residents of interior Alaska were able to enjoy fresh milk, meat and produce during the long, dark Arctic winter months.
Improvements in passenger service paralleled the forward strides in air cargo.
In the spring of 1947, Pan American placed DC-4-type Clippers on the Alaska routes, and the speed, safety and comfort of regularly-scheduled four-engine equipment for Alaska travelers became a reality.
33 -