Pan American, Mr. Trippe also pointed out, had on order a fleet of 33 DC-7C-type Clippers, which, when delivered in the Spring of 1936, would be the fastest and longest range transport aircraft in over-ocean service at the time.
The total commitment for new flight equipment - the DC-7s and the jet Clippers -was $357-million. Mr. Trippe called it concrete evidence of Pan American's faith and confidence in the continued expansion of sound, two-way international trade as well as greatly increased tourist travel between the United States and the 74 friendly foreign nations which are regularly serviced by the Pan American Clipper.
The new jets, Mr. Trippe estimated, would cut time between Honolulu and San Francisco to 4^ hours, and between Tokyo and Seattle to 8^ hours.
Meanwhile, during 1955 flight service was increased on Pacific routes in the Fall of the year, with faster and more direct routes. Schedules between the Pacific Coast and Australia were stepped up from three to four a week. Strato Clipper service replaced the DC-4-type Clippers on the route between Manila, Saigon, and Singapore. On November 1, non-stop direct service between Manila and Bangkok was inaugurated, using Super Six Clippers.
Service between the West Coast and Japan was seven flights per week, and to Manila four flights a week.
Pan American's routes between Hawaii and the Pacific Northwest grew in popularity as an alternate routing between Pacific points and the U.S. east coast.
The White House granted Pan American's C.A.B.-recommended application to include San Francisco as a co-terminal on the airline's Los Angeles-Guatemala-Panama and South America route.
PAA, with the backing of the cities of Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles, along with the majority of their newspapers, pushed its application for a great circle route to Tokyo via Seattle and the Aleutians. This PAA-pioneered route would cut 1000 miles and many hours from the central Pacific path, and was all the more vital to the company with the early advent of DC-7C-type Clippers and plans for even faster jet transports. The White House had postponed decision on this route application pending further study, but PAA felt it was essential for the progress of international aviation. In November, 1953, the decision was still being awaited.
During 1955, Pan American applied to the C.A.B. for permission to fly a great circle route from the West Coast to England and Europe - the "Polar Route" via the arctic circle, which would cut hundreds of miles and many hours from the route.
24 -