This operation, providing regular and dependable air transport service over this vital route, before the networks of the Air Transport Command and the Naval Air Transport Service had been established, constituted a substantial contribution to the war effort.
When the war ended, Pan American's long range operational experience put it in a strong position for postwar development. Pointing toward the early resumption of regular scheduled air services between the U.S. and the South Pacific, PAA dispatched a Douglas DC-4 four-engined Clipper on a survey flight over the route via Honolulu, Canton, Suva, Fiji Islands; Noumea, New Caledonia; and Auckland.
The Clipper, which left San Francisco January 6, 1946, carried executive representatives from operations, maintenance, communications, and traffic departments, who investigated facilities along the route. February 12, the second survey flight to Manila and the Central Pacific departed from San Francisco. These flights were also conducted with Douglas D6-4 equipment.
The first Constellation L-49 was received by the Division early in 1946 and departed on a CAA proving flight to Honolulu March 24, 1946.
Herbert H. Lehman, Director General for UNRRA, contacted Pan American Airways and negotiated to charter Constellation-type Clippers for weekly flights from the U.S. to Shanghai via Tokyo. The first flight left San Francisco March 24, 1946, with a full load of UNRRA personnel. The flights were operated over the Great Circle Route explored July, 1931# by Charles Lindbergh. The route was through Alaska with an intermediate refueling stop at Adak in the Aleutians.
The last of the B-314s was retired April 8, 1946, when Constellation Clipper service was inaugurated between San Francisco, Los Angeles and Honolulu. Fares and flight times between California and Honolulu were reduced considerably with the operation of the L-49s. Flying time between the mid-Pacific terminal and the west coast was cut from 17*& hours to only nine and three-quarters hours while fares were reduced from $278 to $195 one-way and $350 round-trip. This amounted to a 30% reduction in fares.
The target date of resumption of Clipper service between the U.S. and New Zealand was met on June 1, when the Clipper Mandarin, a DC-4 leased from the government, departed from San Francisco. Flights were set up on a once-weekly basis with Clippers leaving San Francisco every Saturday and departing Auckland on Fridays.
Flights to and from New Zealand over the routes pioneered in 1937 were reduced from 52 hours to 41^ hours one way, while fares were reduced from the pre-war level of $650 to $590.
9