and arrived in Auckland on the 29th of March to receive a tremendous ovation from the throngs of people who turned out to greet the pioneering Clipper and its crew. Captain Musick returned to Honolulu April 30, 1937 and on December 23 the Samoan Clipper departed from Honolulu to officially inaugurate the first scheduled cargo and mail service between the U.S. and New Zealand.
The second scheduled flight, which left Honolulu January 9, 1938, ended in tragedy. Captain Musick, who had taken off from PagpPago January 11, sent a radio message back to the ground operator - "OIL LEAK IN NUMBER FOUR ENGINE AM TURNING BACK TO PAGO PAGO MUSICK". Another message minutes later said that the Clipper had to be lightened by jettisoning some of the fuel load. That was the last message received from the crippled plane. Later, search planes found floating life jackets and an oil slick at the scene of the tragedy.
Since the Division had planned to use the Samoan Clipper on the South Pacific service, the loss of the aircraft made it impossible to continue service to Auckland.
After a lapse of two years, the Division again made plans to establish a South Pacific service, this time via Canton Island and Noumea. A survey flight to Auckland was made in August, 1939 and a second flight over the same route in November. Hearings in the certificate case before the Civil Aeronautics Board were held in October, 1939 and the certificate to operate over the route was granted on June 7, 1940. In January, 1939, the first Boeing B-314 was delivered to the Division at Treasure Island base. The first airmail flight on the newly scheduled service to the South Pacific left San Francisco for Auckland on July 12, 1940, via Los Angeles, Honolulu, Canton Island and New Caledonia. The first passenger flight was on August 24, 1940.
To a large extent negotiations and planning for a second Pacific service to cover the 7,000-mile route from California through Hawaii to New Zealand paralleled the activities leading to the creation of service through Hawaii to the Orient. Preliminary studies of trade and transport conditions in Australia and New Zealand were begun in 1932. On March 12, 1934, the company organized a departmental research project of extensive scope assigning its weather experts, radio technicians and operating engineers to analyze the problems involved.
The company had placed orders for the delivery of six Boeing B-314s, but even before these planes were delivered the Pacific Division was contemplating a change from seaplanes to land planes. The plan was to use Constellations over Pacific routes, replacing all other equipment. The schedule for the Constellations (L-49) called for two daily schedules between California and Honolulu, twice-weekly service between California and Hong Kong, and twice-weekly service between California and Auckland, New Zealand.
5