THE STORY IN THE PACIFIC
On November 22, 1935 a flying boat christened "China Clipper" rose from the waters of San Francisco Bay and headed westward for Manila on the first trans-Pacific air mail flight in history. Twenty-one hours later the Clipper made its first landfall at Honolulu. On the 2400-mile flight it had maintained an average speed of 115 miles per hour.
On February 8, 1954, another Clipper--this one named "Queen of the Pacific"—took^ off from Tokyo, climbed 25,000 feet into an upper air phenomenon known as the jet stream. "Riding" this tremendous river of high-velocity wind, the Clipper roared from Japan to the Hawaiian Islands in 9 hours 18 minutes. With an assist from the jet stream, the giant land plane had maintained an average ground speed of 431 miles per hour for the 3800-mile hop I
These two events typify the spectacular advances that Pan American World Airways had made in the last two decades of flight across the world's largest ocean. For it was just 20 years ago that long-range transoceanic flying was "born" with the formation, in January, 1935, of PAA's Pacific Division. This development, however, was not unheralded, for in 1934 President Juan T. Trippe of PAA had made this quiet announcement at a board meeting in New York:
"We are getting ready to fly the Pacific."
At that time no major ocean had been spanned by commercial aviation. And the Pacific was the largest ocean with the longest hops. The longest over-water scheduled flight performed anywhere was between Dakar in French West Africa, and Natal in Brazil, a distance of 1,864 miles, flown only by mail planes. Contrasted with this, the establishment of the trans-Pacific service across the Pacific involved a route 8,746 miles long, including the 2,402-mile flight from San Francisco to Honolulu, for the carriage of passengers and cargo as well as mail.
In 1932 there were no aircraft in commercial operation which came anywhere near meeting Pan American's specifications. However, in 1932, the Sikorsky Company and the G. L. Martin Company submitted bids on their S-42 and M-130 models respectively, which were accepted by Pan American Airways.
The Pacific Division, which was to operate the new transocean service, was headed by Clarence M. Young, a distinguished figure in American aviation. A base was established at Alameda on the east side of the San Francisco Bay. Skilled and experienced personnel who had been trained especially for the new operation had been transferred from older divisions. A leading figure in the new organization was Captain Edwin C. Musick, Senior Pilot of the PAA System, who had conducted most of the important survey flights in the Caribbean, and who was to take the new
1