Forty-eight hours later newly developed five-inch rockets carried in the hold of the Clipper were knocking out Communist tanks. Still-secret electronic equipment, tiny batteries to fire the bazookas, medical supplies, neatly packaged folding radio masts and a bewildering variety of other special equipment that could not wait for the long sea voyage have helped to keep our troops "fustest with the mostest".
When PAA's participation in the airlift finally ended on October 31, 1953, after three years, four months and one day, some really impressive statistics had been amassed. As largest prime contractor to the Government, the company had delivered the most flight hours and greatest lift of any commercial carrier involved.
A total of 2604 Pacific trips had been flown, and more than 114,000 passengers carried. Over eight million pounds of U.S. mail had been moved across the world's biggest ocean and other cargo had totalled upwards of 23 million pounds.
Despite this tremendous effort on behalf of the military, the Division continued to forge ahead on all fronts, constantly improving flight frequencies and services and recording a number of significant "firsts" in Pacific air travel.
For several years, PAA's meteorologists and operations experts had been studying the possibilities of regular operations in the jet stream. These winds, roaring across the Pacific from west to east, were "discovered" during World War II by American bombers raiding Japan, and after the war their potentialities for commercial flight had been the subject of considerable discussion. But it remained for PAA to evolve forecasting methods and operating techniques which made it practicable to take advantage of the "built-in tail winds" for flights from Japan to the U.S.
What the airline's experts envisioned was a non-stop operation of 3800 miles between Tokyo and Honolulu during the winter months (when the jet stream reaches its greatest velocities), eliminating the regular fueling stop at Wake Island. The Tokyo-Honolulu route was 450 miles shorter and meant a saving of seven hours of travel time between the two points.
On November 18, 1952, the Strato Clipper Sovereign of the Skies, with 47 passengers aboard, made the first jet stream flight in the history of commercial aviation, reaching Honolulu 11^ hours after leaving Tokyo. And on January 1, 1953, PAA began these flights on regular schedule, flying around 25,000 feet to obtain the best tail winds and continuing the non-stop hops until March.
As more and more of these flights were made, an immense amount of knowledge was gathered about the velocities and path of the jet stream and the flights became a regular part of PAA's scheduled operations. And the knowledge was made available to the nation's defense, the Division entering into a long-term contract with the U.S. Navy for further research on the subject.
20