Manila that day, was an objective of the Japanese dive bombers as it lay tied to the dock. After the first direct hit it was aflame and in a few minutes burned to the water line.
Meantime, shortly before 10:00 p.m. on December 7, shells began to fall on Midway as the Japanese warships began to close in. The first volley of shells struck the Pan American direction finder equipment. All PAA personnel survived the shelling and were subsequently evacuated by surface ship. The Philippine Clipper, enroute from Wake to Honolulu, landed at Midway for fuel an hour later, guided by the flames caused by the Japanese shelling.
Upon advice from the military authorities in Washington, stations in the South Pacific were closed shortly after Pearl Harbor and personnel at Canton, Suva, Noumea, and Auckland, were evacuated at the first opportunity. Many returned to these islands in September of 1942, when the South Pacific bases were reopened to serve the Naval Air Transport Service.
At the time of the Pearl Harbor bombing, Captain Robert Ford was commanding a Clipper flight from New Caledonia to New Zealand. When he arrived in Auckland, it was decided that he should continue on around the world via India, Arabia and Africa to New York.
Ford took on Pan American mechanical and administrative staffs from Auckland and started out. He had to plot his own weather charts from observations made by the Clipper's meteorologists. Pan American executives in other countries and U.S. consular officials in 12 countries aided as much as they could in clearing the way.
Strict radio silence was maintained and his progress was further hampered by the lack of other peacetime flying aids such as radio beams and weather reports. However, they landed in New York January 6, 1942, after flying 34,500 miles.
There were no Clippers at Manila at the time of the first Japanese attacks, but there were Pan American personnel. All were captured and spent the long war years as prisoners of the Japanese.
Control over Pan American's eastbound traffic had been turned over to the Navy at Pearl Harbor. A substantial part of the traffic carried eastbound from Honolulu consisted of the wounded men and women and children being evacuated from Pearl Harbor. Passenger lists were frequently made up solely of mothers and children. Nursing facilities were provided at Treasure Island to give immediate care to these passengers. The traffic westbound from Treasure Island, also under Navy control, included military and technical personnel being transferred to the scene of the recent bombing and shipments of serums, vaccines, blood plasma, and other vital medical supplies that were sorely needed at Pearl Harbor.
8 -