Service from San Francisco to Sydney, Australia, which was inaugurated March 17, 1947, was to be doubled beginning May 21, the same year. Clipper schedules between San Francisco and Sydney were increased from once to twice weekly in each direction and flights to and from Auckland, New Zealand, were increased from one flight every two weeks to one flight weekly.
After a year and a half of research into the most comfortable seating arrangement aboard trans-Pacific Clippers, the Pacific-Alaska Division introduced the Sleeperette service on all Clippers.
The Sleeperette seats, still in use today in an improved form, made it possible for Clipper passengers to relax in complete comfort, either day or night. The seat back lowered to virtually a horizontal position. Unfolding from under the seat was a leg rest adjustable in height. Together, the two comprised a bed well over six feet in length when in a fully reclining position.
In order to provide ample leg room for passengers, the Sleeperettes were 40 inches apart, twice the distance provided for in the conventional type of aircraft seating. Both chair and leg rests were cushioned with foam rubber to provide uniform overall support.
The company's long-dreamed of round-the-world route was officially inaugurated June 17, 1947, when a Pan American Constellation - the Clipper America - left New York for a flight that would take it over the routes that link the Atlantic Division with the Pacific-Alaska Division. The Clipper completed the flight in 12 days covering 19,000 miles. The Clipper had a passenger list of the nation's leading publishers in addition to top ranking PAA officials.
Another Pacific-Alaska Division "first" was announced July 4, 1947, when an all-cargo Clipper was put in service between San Francisco and Manila. The inauguration of the new service followed closely the announcement of reduced cargo rates that resulted in savings ranging from 20 to 53 per cent on volume shipments. The service was set up on a weekly basis.
Another link in the Division's certificated routes was forged with the inauguration of service September 24, 1947, from San Francisco to the British Crown Colony of Hong Kong. The service, resumed for the first time since the war, called for three flights weekly to and from Hong Kong. Two of the weekly flights were by way of Honolulu, Wake, Guam and Manila, while the third was over the Division's new round-the-world route via'Honolulu, Wake, Tokyo and Shanghai.
This also established the first service in the history of the Division to Tokyo.
In less than 10 days after establishing round-the-world service on a weekly basis, schedules were doubled, providing passengers with a choice of two routes across
12