planes on their first flights in the Pacific. By November, 1935, an organization of 221 had been built around the 41 men transferred into the new division from other parts of the System.
In route surveys begun in 1932 and continued until the establishment of bases in 1935, it was apparent that while Honolulu and Manila offered the facilities available in any well-developed center of population, an entirely different problem was presented by the intervening portion of the route. The islands of Midway, Wake and Guam had to be staffed and equipped to handle the Clippers that would soon be making regular stops.
The 15,000-ton steamer North Haven was chartered early in 1935 and ordered to San Francisco. Her cargo and complement of passengers included two villages, five air bases, a quarter of a million gallons of fuel, forty-four airline technicians, a construction force of seventy-four, food to last them for months and countless other items of equipment and material. Developments already indicated that the S-42 would be ready for survey flights in a very short time. Even before the North Haven reached Midway in April, the S-42 had completed her first survey flight from San Francisco to Honolulu.
While the problem of flight equipment was being worked out, Pan American Airways moved ahead with other phases of its transoceanic program. Two routes to the Orient were studied - one by way of Alaska, and the second by way of the American island possessions. Pan American Airways had, in 1932, acquired certain airlines in Alaska and proceeded to develop an Alaskan service, knowing that the day would yet come when the northern or "Great Circle" route would be the logical, shortest and fastest run to the Orient. However, at that time and with the limited amount of navigational aids, the route to the Orient via Alaska was considered too risky. Accordingly, the decision was made that the Hawaiian route should be first developed. (The Alaskan phase of PAA's operations will be dealt with later in this history).
In the Orient, the desired terminal was Shanghai, the commercial metropolis of China and the gateway to important points in the interior. The Chinese government was against any reciprocal agreement that would permit foreign airlines to operate in China.
At that time two Chinese controlled aviation companies had franchises in China. One was Eurasia and the other was CNAC, an American-Chinese owned company. In 1933 Pan American Airways bought out the American interests in CNAC. Of most immediate interest and concern to Pan American was the fact that CNAC held a franchise for "Route No. 3" between Shanghai and Canton by way of Wenchow, Foochow, Amoy and Swatow.
Following are the dates of granting of the permits and franchises cm the Far Eastern end of the trans-Pacific route:
2