meet fluctuating demands for the two types of service, and providing a sturdy but movable partition which provided complete separation. The task of changing over the interiors of the 17 Strato Clippers used in the Pacific proved to be one of the most extensive modification programs ever undertaken by an airline.
The low-cost tourist fares, providing savings up to 20 per cent over existing travel costs, proved immensely popular on all routes served by the Division.
In addition to increasing flight frequencies - they were upped to daily on the Tokyo route and thrice weekly to Australia and the Philippines - the Division forged ahead rapidly in the field of technological advancements. All PAD aircraft were equipped with a navigational aid known as the Sperry "Zero Reader” which greatly improved piloting in ’’instrument weather”. Placed in operation at the Division's San Francisco base was a Dehmel flight simulator which reproduced on the ground all of the problems encountered in actual flight, even imitating the various sounds. Selcal, a revolutionary new method of ground-to-aircraft communications which eliminated the need of constant monitoring of radio channels by the flight crew, was developed by division engineers. And the entire fleet of Strato Clippers was being equipped with a new type of turbo superchargers which guaranteed greater speed, higher altitude and increased range to the giant doubledecked Boeings.
As the year 1954 ended, Executive Vice President Colonel Clarence M. Young was able to report that the Pacific Clippers carried a total of 143,000 revenue passengers, 12,000 more than had flown the year before. And the outlook for the new year was even brighter.
During the year 1955 - which marked the 20th anniversary of Pan American's first flight across the Pacific, November 22, 1935 - PAA continued to improve its service and plan for the future.
Highlight of the year was the announcement on October 13 by President Juan T. Trippe that the company's Board of Directors had approved the purchase of 45 American-built jet transports.
Contracts were signed calling for delivery of 20 Boeing 707 jet transports between December 1958 and November 1959, and 25 Douglas jet Clippers, delivery to begin in December 1959, with the last to be received by the airline in January 1961.
The Boeings would carry 104 passengers in standard configuration and 125 in tourist. The Douglas would carry 108 passengers with standard seating or 131 tourist-class passengers.
Both jets were ordered equipped with Pratt and Whitney jet turbine engines. And both were designed to cruise up to .88 Mach number and a contract cruising speed of 575 miles an hour at 30,000 feet.
22