Ground Facilities. PAA purchased a site and constructed an airport at Juneau, where small airplanes had been landing on the mudflats at low tide. An emergency field was built at Burwash Landing, Y.T., and the company furnished equipment and personnel to improve and maintain the existing field at Whitehorse. At Fairbanks the 1800-foot sod runway was extended and PAA conducted practically all the winter airport maintenance there for years. In addition, it was necessary at many places for the company to assume most of the responsibility for maintenance of landing strips which had been built with Territory or municipal funds.
Technical contributions. Pan American designed and built the first portable furnace equipped with blowers for preheating aircraft engines; constructed heaters to prevent carburetor icing; developed cowling shutters which would keep engines running at lower power output during extreme cold; designed special wing and tail covers which would prevent snow from forming on aircraft on the ground and did a great deal of experimental and developmental work on skis for aircraft.
The next step in Pan American’s operations was the linking of Alaska with the outside. In 1938-39 a series of proving flights was made in a twin-engine Sikorsky S-43 amphibian, after adequate marine bases had been established at Seattle, Ketchikan and Juneau.
It had been planned to inaugurate this with four-engine landplanes, but by the fall of 1939 it became apparent that the necessary airports would not be completed in time and the company decided to institute interim service with flying boats. Accordingly, semi-weekly flights between Seattle, Ketchikan and Juneau were established with a four-engine Sikorsky S-42B Clipper in June 1940.
The original plan was to suspend this service during the winter because of the inclement coastal weather, but the service proved so valuable that it was decided to continue it during the winter months, operating it with two-engine land equipment over an interior route from Seattle via Prince George B.C. to Juneau, Whitehorse and Fairbanks. After a preliminary proving period during which only mail and cargo was carried, passenger service was started in March, 1941 with Douglas DC-3A and Lockheed Lodestar equipment.
With the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor Pan American went on a wartime footing in Alaska as it did in the Pacific and throughout the world.
In order to render maximum assistance to the armed services, PAA in 1942 entered into a contract with the Navy whereby all the facilities of the Alaska sector were transferred to the Navy and the company undertook to operate these and additional equipment supplied by the Navy. Essential commercial traffic was continued, but primarily the operations consisted of a special service to military requirements to Anchorage and points beyond in the Aleutians.
32 -