January 19, 1944, President Juan T. Trippe issued a memorandum ordering the consolidation of the Pacific and Alaska divisions, to become effective February 1, 1944. It stipulated that the new organization was to be known as the "Pacific-Alaska Division" with headquarters in San Francisco. However, it wasn't until November 15, 1945 - which date marked the termination of the Alaska Division's contract with the Navy - that plans for the amalgamation of the divisions could go ahead«, The unification of the two divisions became effective November 29, 1945.
One of the most significant events in the Pacific-Alaska Division's postwar expansion program took place on August 1, 1946, when the Civil Aeronautics Board accepted the company's application to establish Clipper service to Japan, China, Australia, Dutch East Indies, Strait Settlements and India. Clipper service was to begin as soon as additional equipment was received and when the Government obtained landing rights along the route.
The decision was the first step in the formation of PAA's round-the-world service. The Certificate of Convenience and Necessity allowed the Pacific-Alaska Division to extend its Central Pacific route pioneered in 1935, from Midway Island to Tokyo, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Saigon, Bangkok, Rangoon, Burma; and to Calcutta, where Clippers operating over the Atlantic Division would connect with PAD Clippers.
Pan American Airways was also granted a certificate to operate direct between Honolulu and Wake, to continue its operation between Manila and Hong Kong and to extend its service from Manila to Saigon, French Indo China, Singapore, the Strait Settlements and to Batavia, Dutch East Indies.
Following shortly after the resumption of Clipper service to Manila on September 16, the Division dispatched a DC-4 Clipper and crew on a 25,000-mile survey flight of the newly granted Pacific routes. Aboard the Clipper that left San Francisco October 21, 1946,were top traffic and operations executives plus two representatives of the Civil Aeronautics Administration.
The itinerary was Honolulu, Midway, Wake, Guam, Manila and Tokyo. Shanghai was the next stop, then Hong Kong and Canton. From Canton, the survey proceeded to Calcutta, back to Rangoon, Bangkok and Saigon. The Clipper also visited Singapore and Batavia, before returning to San Francisco via Manila.
In all, the trip covered slightly more than 25,000 miles and required 49 days to complete. This flight, which rounded out the highlights of the year's operation, paved the way for the company's present day operation.
With the postwar development of the airlines racing to fulfill their promise of unprecedented speed and luxury, the Pacific-Alaska Division, in February, 1947, took the first major step toward cutting trans-Pacific travel times.
- 10 -
/