THE STORY IN ALASKA
When in 1954 service was inaugurated with 300-mph pressurized DC-6B Clippers capable of carrying up to 76 passengers, Pan American wrote another chapter in a story of pioneering that dates back to the days of single-engine, six-place monoplanes and the most primitive standards of service and operational techniques.
The story began in 1932 when Pacific Alaska Airways, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pan American Airways Corporation, purchased the equipment and facilities and took over the personnel and operations of Alaskan Airways and Pacific International Airways of Alaska.
Two motives inspired this move.
For several years Pan American had been vitally interested in the potentialities of an air route across the North Pacific to the Orient, which had led to the famous 1931 survey flight by Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh and Mrs. Lindbergh from New York to Tokyo via Canada, Alaska, Siberia and the Kurile Islands, as well as to studies by Dr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson, Harold M. Bixby and others.
Secondly, Alaskan Airways and Pacific International, the two largest operators in the territory at that time, were on the verge of going out of business because of financial difficulties. This not only would have been a blow to national defense in a critical area, but would have deprived the people of Alaska of indispensable mail, express and passenger service, with the only alternative a return to dog sleds in winter and slow river boats in summer. And the breaking up of the two companies would have meant the dissipation of organizations experienced in Arctic operations in a sector constituting a vital link in any future operations across the North Pacific.
When PAA stepped into the picture, this is what it acquired: a heterogeneous assortment of single-engine aircraft - mostly obsolescent - some small frame hangars at Fairbanks, Anchorage and Nome, and widely-scattered contract mail routes in the interior, on the Alaskan and Kenai peninsulas and from Nenana to Ruby, Nulato and Unalalkleet and to Flat and Bethel. Most of the business, however, was on a charter basis.
The consolidated "fleets” of the two companies consisted of seven Fairchild 71s, a couple of Stinsons, a Fairchild 51, and a Travelair, Standard, Waco, Swallow, Stearman and Bellanca Pacemaker. There were seven pilots and about 40 other employees.
29