Santiago, find a new kind of luck in smart Latin casinos. Be rightfully smug when you buy a Panama hat for a song in Ecuador, orchids for pennies in Colombia.
What else will your camera, and your heart, hold for remembrance? The many colored sails of native boats in Belem and Bahia. The thundering froth of Iguassu Falls, more tremendous than Niagara. The boat trips and the fishing in the Chilean Lakes. The yellow reed balsa boats on Lake Titicaca and the funny derby hats of the women in La Paz. The melt-in-your-mouth steak cooked by honest-to-goodness Argentine Gauchos.
Then to give your imagination a work-out, spend all the golden moments you can spare in the Inca-land of Peru. History is an exciting thing in the centuries-old ruins of Pachacamac, Chan-Chan, Cuzco and mountain-held Machu Picchu. You’ll be glad you stopped, too, because Lima and Arequipa are much too lovely to pass by.
It feels so good to be treated like a visiting potentate in South America’s hotels and resorts. You’ll enjoy especially your stays in air-conditioned Pan American Guest Houses at Belem, Brazil, and at San Juan and Port of Spain, on the way to South America. Don’t forget that going or returning, your stops in the Caribbean are an extra exciting travel dividend.
Even the past is thrilling in South America. In Peru, you will marvel at the great Inca ruins to be found everywhere. None will overpower you more than this high fortress of Machu Picchu.
Ever go shopping in a floating market place? There’’s beauty and booty along the waterfront of Bahia where native boats bring in tropical fruits and vegetables — and pottery for a pittance. And you can now bring back $4.00 worth of bargains, duty-free, if you are out of the U. S. only 12 days or more.
This is Rio — the gayest, brightest spot you’ve ever seen! From any viewpoint it’s magnificent — especially from high look-out points like Sugar Loaf that overlook the gleaming city, the curve of Copacabana Beach, and the deep-blue harbor.
Argentina has its cowboys, — but the/re a different, more colorful kind. Expert horsemen, they know more than how to herd cattle. Cooking outdoor barbecued steaks, for instance.