'
?«*S|
ion
¡Perhaps you have thought of South Africa as a place only for Mr. Livingstone. And that’s where you’d be wrong. For South Africa has come a long way in making this country attractive to tourists — and Pan American Clippers will take you a long way to see it — in less than 40 hours from New York!
Millions of dollars have been spent in building deluxe hotels and resorts for visitors to South Africa. Every region has luxurious country clubs, golf courses, and good highways and transportation. Tou can discover Africa — but do it in comfort. And that can mean the most exciting travel experience you’ve ever had —- for all the exotic scenery, the strange attractions and the wild life of South Africa are still there.
You can prospect for pleasure in up-to-date Johannesburg, center of the gold mining industry. By air or train you can go to see majestic Table Mountain towering above Capetown, and stop off to ogle at Kimberley diamond mines on the way. From here no one should miss the Garden Drive to the sea resort of Durban — through dazzling scenery of mountains and shore, an endless show of flowers. Cango Caves, said by unbiased experts to be the largest and finest stalactite caverns in the world, are an underground side trip on this route. Find time for the trip north to Victoria Falls, four and a half times higher than Niagara.
The big attraction of South Africa, alone worth going there to see, is Kruger National Park. This is an 8,000 square-mile outdoor zoo
—	without fences, and with the real thing in lions, elephants, giraffes, zebras, hippos, antelopes and other wild life you’ve only seen in circuses. It’s an automobile tour, with accommodations en route, and regulations for conduct that keep you safe. If you want to shoot big game, safaris start from Nairobi, further north
—	or you can stop off on the way to Johannesburg for an excursion up the Congo.
Wild animal show, outdoors — Kruger National Park. An amazing automobile tour, seeing the greatest of beasts at close range, yet in safety. Nearly fifty thousand people visit Kruger each year.
Table Mountain is the dramatic background for interesting Capetown.
Durban, at the end of the Garden Drive, is a comfortable winter resort playground. On the way, you'll see attractive rondeval huts like these at Plettenberg Bay. Near Durban you may see fearsome-looking but friendly gfiilus.