Want to get away from it all — in a hurry — with no risk of disappointment? Then take a Clipper to Bermuda — less than three hours from New York or Boston! From the moment you catch the soft sweet smell of tropical flowers, you are lifted out of yourself and into the mood for fun.
Bermuda’s shoreline is a succession of lovely coves — you will bicycle from one to another, and never decide which is more beautiful. You’ll see blues and greens in ocean coloring that you never knew existed. You’ll stretch in bliss on warm bright beaches flecked with pink coral. You’ll golf with only the beauty of the scenery to distract you from your game. You’ll sight-see in a jolly open carriage — or in a tiny English taxi. Then, at night, with the smell of blossoms even heavier, there’s a happy sociability among people who have only relaxation on their minds, with balmy air, sweet music and bright stars conspirators in the plan.
Hotels, resorts and guest houses dot the islands — headquarters from which you’ll set off on interesting excursions. To the Aquarium to meet new finny friends. Or you can don a diver’s helmet and walk the ocean floor for even closer acquaintance. To the Devil’s Hole to watch deep-sea monsters in an acrobatic show. To Crystal or Leamington Cave to explore an awesome underworld. To St. Georges to see the old town and watch the Gombey dancers. Out to Sea Gardens to see a new kind of seascape through the magic window of a glass-bottom boat. Or down to Hamilton’s waterfront main street to buy lovely things in the British shops.
Bermuda’s a charmer — whether it’s activity and sports you’re after, or simply quiet loafing. Once you’ve discovered you can reach it in minutes you’ll come back again, instead of going to nearby places that are only half the fun.
You won’t believe there could be a place so different, where Spring spends the Winter only a few minutes away from New York.
Golf, tennis, swimming, sailing — even sports that you find in other places are more fun Bermuda.
Pan American World Airways
(^Wor/(/ff c7/losf (~^7:x
>er/ence\
.