Acapulco, Mexico's version of the Riviera — a beach resort as gay and sophisticated as the song of the same name.
Chichicastenango — stage set for color photographers. This is the market; in the background, the Church of Santo Tomas where Indians burn incense on the steps.
here’s a warm sun-belt that lies in a golden band below the southern borders of this country. Basking in its wonderful warmth are Mexico, Guatemala, and the whole tropical chain of the Bahamas and the Caribbean islands. All within a few hours’ reach by Clipper.
Suppose you choose Mexico. What will you talk about most when you get home? It might be the surprising up-to dateness and lively life in Mexico City — or it might be the quiet charm of Taxco, Puebla, Guadalajara, or out-of-the-way towns and villages. It might be the markets, bulging with bargains in silver, pottery, textiles and all sorts of native crafts. It might be the fishermen’s butterfly boats resting like dragonflies on Lake Patzcuaro, or the water-borne flower show in the Floating Gardens of Xochimilco. Or the things that happened inside you as you stood atop the Pyramid of the Sun and looked down on the ancient temples of Teotihuacan, or when you probed the mysteries of the Mayas in the ruins at Chichen-Itza.
Or perhaps your bent is for active excitement, found in full at Mexico City’s bullfights, or the daring plunges of the diving boys from the cliffs at Acapulco, the dervish dances of Mexican Fiestas. If you want to forget winter, and home cares — Mexico is the place for you!
When you go to Guatemala, you’ll feel you were the first to discover it. It’s a mountain country, with volcanos for extra drama. Over half the population is Indian —- direct descendants of the Mayas. You’ll see them everywhere — in native markets, along the roadside with great baskets of live chickens, and every kind of cargo, on their heads. Guatemala City, Antigua — these are the principal cities to see. But you mustn’t miss a romantic evening in one of the little villages on the shore of Lake Atitlan. And no one would ever go to Guatemala without
12
I