your winter cares «iirkMeSM spcns
seeing the market town of Chichicastenango, and the pagan rites on the steps of the Church of Santo Tomas.
Cuba, island of rhythm and gayety. Eat new dishes in bright sidewalk cafes, see the best thoroughbreds away from the post, try a round of roulette to see how good you are. And for the old side of Havana, find out for yourself that Morro Castle is twice as impressive as it seems in pictures.
You’ll agree that pirates must have had a good eye for treasure when you see Jamaica. It’s an island of mountains and leaping cataracts, greeny-blue ocean in clear lagoons, and plenty of resorts as at Montego Bay for fine lazy living. Haiti, with a mood set by jungle drums and voodoo mystery, offers the really major spectacle of Emperor Christophe’s mountain-top fortress, the Citadelle. You’ll pay tribute to Columbus in the neighbor country of Dominican Republic. His remains, it is said, are in a cathedral in Ciudad Trujillo where Clippers land.
Brush up on your rhumba, get set to sing a Calypso song — you’re on a Pan American Clipper, headed down the Antilles from Cuba to Trinidad. And what wonderful things you’ll see at every stop!
Ponce de Leon left Puerto Rico to search for the Fountain of Youth. You can go there to find it. As in all the Antilles, the beaches are perfect and sports are complete. And there’s a great deal of historical sightseeing to do. You’ll stay in Pan American’s luxurious new Guest House — the San Geronimo in San Juan — delight to all Clipper travelers.
St. Thomas, St. Croix in the Virgin Islands, Antigua and St. Lucia in the Lesser Antilles — these stopping places of Pan American Clippers are vacation centers in a cluster of tropical islands that are lush and beautiful. Trinidad, again, is the location of another Pan American Guest House, the Piarco, where you’ll be spoiled with service. Trinidad itself will fascinate you — for it has a surprising Eastern aspect — with Hindus and Moslems, mosques, minarets, turbans and fezzes everywhere. And
If you’re seeking a really nearby tropical heaven, there’s Nassau in the Bahamas. These are coral islands, flashing bright in a pure-emerald ocean. Sponge fishing, and the Sponge Market, are fascinating to see. Bring your fishing gear, for the game runs big in these waters. Nassau is made for pleasure — the whole spirit of the place makes you loosen up and relax.
Pretty as a picture postcard—	Haiti's Christophe built this tower-
Morro Castle, Havana.	ing mountain fortress.
this is the deep tropic home of Calypso. Second surprise is Curacao’s capital of Willemstad, a Dutch settlement with a waterfront straight from Holland. It can’t be beat for shopping bargains, from all over the world.
Pan American Guest Houses, like the San Geronimo in San Juan, provide modern comfort and luxury.
13