But it is not simple. Before he barges way off-course in search of tail-' winds, a captain wants to make sure: are the tailwinds really going to be there? Is the map right? It is of course always a few hours out of date. It is based on radio reports from ships and aircraft at sea; but there are too few of them: too much freehand drawing goes into those elegant lines. If some third mate gets a decimal wrong, he may throw the map off for hundreds of miles around him. Besides, an airline pilot just naturally doesn’t trust anybody. He wants to check on his weather map as he goes. “They claim the pressure increases around here; but mine doesn’t. Something is cooking they didn’t know about; must be a new Low forming near the Faroe Islands.” If the pattern does not shape up as expected, he wants to re-draw his map, revise his flight plan, possibly turn back for more gas. It boils down to this: he wants a barometer.
But: there is a big But. If you simply put a barometer into an aircraft, it would not work. It would stop being a barometer and would become an altimeter instead. Atmospheric pressure becomes less as you go up, more as you go down; the instrument would therefore respond to climb and descent much more than to weather factors. That is in fact how the airplane’s Sensitive Altimeter works. It is nothing but a barometer marked with altitude numbers instead of “Storm,” “Fair,” etc. So here the aeronautical dog starts chasing its tail. When you use the instrument as an altimeter, it has errors due to the Highs and Lows of weather. If you use it as a barometer, it goes berserk because of climb and descent. If you know your barometric pressure, then the instrument tells you your altitude within five feet. If you know your altitude, it can tell you barometric pressure to the second decimal. But it can’t tell you both.
Still the ocean pilot needs his barometer. You could say: “If the weather bureau could really guarantee the weather map, a pilot wouldn’t need to check for himself.” But here the dog starts chasing his tail again. The weather map is based on observations taken by pilots! This is especially true of the upper-air map which most concerns the pilot. The pressure and
wind pattern way up is always quite different from that on the surface; steamship observations haven’t much bearing on it. There are indeed some special weather ships stationed at sea, equipped to make upper-air observations with balloons. But there are few of them. The bulk of the data must come from pilots. So the weather bureau could perhaps give any one pilot a map which he can trust without a barometer of his own; but it would make him a chiseler: a lot of other pilots would first have to radio careful barometer readings from all over the North Atlantic to make his map so good. You come right back to it: the ocean pilot wants to be able to “tap his glass.” Until you can give him a barometer, the pressure pattern idea does not make sound, practical flying.
Eckener had got around this dilemma by flying low, where steamer observations had some meaning. For the airplane, the lack of a barometer made the whole idea so impractical that it was actually hardly thought about. Then, during the war, a young mathematician at the University of Chicago, John C. Bellamy, made one of those brilliant discoveries which immediately become obvious. Just before the war, the “absolute altimeter” had been developed to measure the height of an aircraft above the surface of the earth (rather than height above Sea Level.) It is really a primitive radar. It sends a radio “bang” down to the surface, waits for the radio echo, and shows the time difference as altitude. It had been developed mostly to keep airplanes from running into mountains. Bellamy (a mere private pilot) saw a much more important perspective: here was the way to give the airplane a barometer. If you use it over the ocean, the Absolute Altimeter gives you, of course, your height above sea level. And now that you know your height, you can use your Sensitive Altimeter as a barometer. If it says you are at 17,000 feet, but the “Absolute” says 16,500, then you are in a Low. The difference between your Sensitive and your Absolute Altimeters (ocean pilots call it the “D-Factor”) is your barometric pressure!
That little trick helps more to make an airplane oceanworthy than another couple of engines would help, or another ton of