Your compass tells you where your nose is pointed. But you know you are drifting in a cross-wind—because you practically always are. You want to find out which way, and how much. Remember, you can’t feel the wind any more than you can see it. But you know this: if you fly from a barometric High to barometric Low, you have a cross-wind from your left. From Low to High, a cross-wind from your right. Can you calculate your wind? This was the original problem which had started Bellamy, the two-altimeter man, on his research. And he found the answer. If you write into a formula your speed, your change of D-Factor during the past hour, your approximate latitude, and a trick number, you come out with the answer: “All this time I have been sliding off to my right at 20 mph.” Thus the up-and-down indicator becomes the right-and-left indicator.
Then Bellamy sort of overshot his own mark. The pilots to whom he demonstrated his methods above the North Atlantic, took his formula and based on it a whole new method of navigation: the “Single Heading.” They said: “Forget all about the actual pressure pattern, the actual winds over the ocean. If you know what the barometer reads in Scotland and what it reads in Newfoundland, you know enough. From these two values alone you can calculate the total sidewise drift you will have during the trip. Just point your nose to make up for this drift, and go ahead and fly. You may then get, actually, all sorts of winds; you may drift now to the right, now to the left. But the total net result will put you where you are going.”
It works, as pilot after pilot has found out. Of course you have to use those elusive upper-air barometric pressures. You must allow for the probable change in barometer while you are en route. There are angles, errors, exceptions. Under some conditions, Bellamy’s formula would suck you exactly into the worst weather with strong headwinds. But usually it even makes you fly the fastest possible way— detours you around the highs and lows just right. Practically so, at any rate. They say that one of the airlines doubted this, and staged a Battle of the Mathematicians.
They took a weather map of the North Atlantic, figured the path and flight time made by the Bellamy formula—and put a man to work to figure out the absolutely fastest flight path. The man did six hours of solid calculus. And the hypothetical flight he made beat Bellamy’s hypothetical flight by only six minutes!
Naval people tell of a crew that tried the Single Heading from Prestwick to Gander. Finally, when they were only two hours out, the captain said, “Let’s quit this nonsense. It’s obvious that guy is crazy; we are going to miss by 100 miles!” The navigator said, “We have plenty of gas. Just for the heck of it, let’s keep our heading and see how far we miss. Then you can write a report.” First thing they knew, a wall of cloud appeared ahead: a Gold Front that was not even on their map. The wind shifted and blew at 60 mph from the north; and they passed within one mile of Gander.
VI
The sixth trick of ocean flying is the “Howgozit.” Once in a while during a crossing, the captain reaches back toward the navigator’s desk and says: “Let’s see the Howgozit.” The navigator hands him a sheet of paper; the captain gives it one glance, nods, and hands it back: he has seen how it goes.
The Howgozit is a graphic way of bookkeeping. In business, if you keep poor books, you can be broke and not know it —yet. In ocean flying that is precisely what happened to the “Bermuda Sky Queen,” the flying boat that alighted near the weathership last fall. (This was not a regular airline flight, but more of a freelance enterprise.) All of a sudden the pilot realized that he had not been making enough headway, and the land was still further away than he had thought. All of a sudden the engineer missed a couple of hundred gallons he had thought he had. They had gone too far to turn back; they had not enough fuel left to reach land forward. They were bankrupt. And that is precisely what the Howgozit tries to prevent. In business, if some department starts losing money, you can’t afford to wait until the year-end figures