show the accumulated loss. You must know right away. The same in the air: the Howgozit shows the pilot that things have started td go wrong long before they have actually gone wrong very far.
Just before take-off, the pilot, his navigator, and the company dispatcher always calculate a flight plan: it takes about an hour’s paperwork with slide rules, power charts, and weather map. Then they draw their Howgozit. They draw curves to show, for every moment of the flight, how far along they should be at that moment, how much fuel they should still have aboard at that moment, and other things.
During the flight, then, the navigator plots on the same graph another curve, showing how things actually are going. Every time he gets a fix, every time the engineer reports another 100 gallons . burned up, a mark goes on the Howgozit at the proper place. Thus, a second set of curves shapes up; as the flight goes on, it creeps forward snake-like across the paper. You can see at a glance how things go. If the actual-performance curves stay above the planned-performance ones, okay. If they sag below, look out. If a curve suddenly bends down, look out still more. In any case, the graph instantly makes a prediction: if Fuel Aboard keeps going down at this rate, then—here the pilot’s eye simply extends the curve into the future—you won’t make it. At least, not with the legal reserve. You will have to spend all your free time the next three months writing letters to the government, explaining why you were short of reserve. No good. Turn back.
Yes, but can I turn back? Every ocean flight goes through a Point of No Return; beyond that point, you haven’t enough gas to turn back. You must go forward. But in an emergency it would take your navigator a quarter hour of frantic calculating to figure out whether you had passed your Point of No Return. The Howgozit also has a ready-made answer for this question. So, before take-off, they graph also the curves for a Return, as a sort of pre-thought solution; then, if things don’t work out, the captain can decide at a glance by just mentally sliding down some lines.
They also draw in some curves for “One-Engine-Out, Return” and “One-Engine-Out, Ahead.” With one engine “out,” even a four-engined airplane’s miles-per-gallon goes down a little. So they shade a certain part of the graph: thin ice here. If, at this time and/or place, you lost an engine, you would not reach land—with legal reserve. The planned-performance curve steers comfortably clear of that area; but if, in flight, the snake of actual performance seems to be headed for that area, they can see hours ahead: danger of danger.
Quite a few flights turn back to try again later: most often it is not because of any actual trouble, but merely because the Howgozit said: “No good. The way it is going, during the second half of your fifth hour you will not be able to conduct this flight without taking a chance.” And chance is just what they do not tolerate in ocean flying. But most of the time, when the pilot asks: “Howgozit?” the piece of paper says: “It goes Okay.”