away behind that engine, had got so hot it blew its tire. This cut the fuel line to the other engine, out on the same wing, and that one stopped too. The two other engines, though, got them home to a belly landing on an airport. That is a secondary safety factor of the four-engined airplane: it can fly with two engines out—quite well if the two dead ones are on opposite sides, just barely if they are on the same wing. Much always depends on the load, and also on the air. A crippled airplane, heavily loaded, may sink in warm, thin air, but stay up in cold, thick air. But the real safety of four engines lies in the laws of chance. Failure of the second engine is so improbable that even six engines would not be much safer.
There have been freak cases where all four engines stopped at once. Once (a nonairline case) a copilot by mistake shut off all four engines during a landing approach. Once, long ago on a foreign airline, a pilot let the carburetors of all four engines clog up with ice. In such cases, the same thing would happen even with eight engines. Only one case is known of ugly progressive engine failure. A four-engined airplane lost first one engine, then another failed under the increased load, and then the others could not keep flying in warm summer air over the desert. But that was on a type of plane with which the airlines then had not had much service experience. It is not likely to repeat. With any well-tried four-engined airplane, you can bet your life that it will fly and fly and fly as long as its fuel holds out.
II
So we come to the second trick of ocean flying: to . make an airplane carry enough fuel—and a payload too. It is 2,330 miles from Newfoundland to Europe. But the airplane is under an engineering curse which limits its range, sort of naturally, to about 750 miles. Big or small airplanes, military or civil ones are remarkably alike in this. They all are so busy holding themselves up that they can carry very little load. Almost two-thirds of the total lift goes to hold up the machine’s own weight; only one-third to carry “useful load.” This “useful load”
then is usually subdivided fifty-fifty: half goes for fuel, half goes for what flying is all about: the payload. On the average airplane this gives you enough gas for five hours—say 750 miles, perhaps 1,000; and enough payload to pay for the trip—maybe. If you want to fly 1,500 or 2,000 miles, you can do it in almost any airplane, from a Cub to an airliner; but it will have to be all fuel and no pay: financially, you might as well stay in bed.
“Well, make it bigger.” But the bigger airplane needs bigger engines; bigger engines need bigger tanks. Instead of a short-range small machine, you get a short-range big machine. It’s true that the bigger airplane is proportionally a little lighter; but not enough to make bigness the answer. “Build it lighter.” But then it is not strong enough. “Make it faster; give it more power.” But more power means more fuel consumption, and your tanks won’t reach any further. “Then give it bigger tanks as well.” But then the structure would be too weak, in rough air. “Well, beef it up.” But then you add weight! “Maybe it is too fast; put in a small engine, as they do in those economy-model cars. Then it will run farther on one tank.” Yes, but the small engine won’t lift the big tank across the wires on takeoff. As a famous aeronautical engineer puts it: “The airplane is a machine that almost doesn’t fly.”
The real answer proved to be: Clean it up. Make it more slippery so it is easier to pull. The more obvious cleaning-up had all been done years ago when we learned how to build a wing not braced by struts and wires; how to retract our landing gear; and how to put a smooth cowling around an engine. But that still left some polishing to do. Take the twenty-one-seat DC-3 airliner: it is one of the many airplanes that can just cross the Atlantic— but not with a worthwhile payload. It looks perfectly streamlined. But you have seen those hundreds of rivet heads that stick out all over its skin. Well, it takes about 200 horsepower to drag all that roughness through the air. To develop 200 hp during the ten hours of an Atlantic crossing takes about 150 gallons of gas: 150 gallons, with tank, weigh 1,000 pounds. One thousand pounds are the