HOW THEY FLY THE ATLANTIC
WOLFGANG LANGEWIESCHE
amelia Earhart became a public l\ figure when she flew the Atlantic: JL JL as a passenger! An Atlantic flight was then the ultimate adventure. Of those who tried, some failed to get off with their overload of fuel, and some burned to death horribly in front of the newsreel cameras. Of those who got off, some turned back in time; some “ditched” near a passing steamer; some disappeared. Of those who got across, many made hasty landings, out of fuel or out of nervous endurance. They cracked up in bogs, in cow pastures, in the surf, on subarctic islands. And remember, most of this happened at a time when the airlines were already shuttling all over the continent.
Today, 125 airliners cross the North Atlantic each week: and not a single pay passenger has yet been lost at sea. Some crashes have occurred at the two ends of the run, in Newfoundland and in Europe. Some of them were, at the time, the worst yet. But they were of the kind which also still happens on domestic airlines: the pilot flew blind, and he hit a mountain or he scraped the ground. That he had just crossed the ocean, or was about to cross, did not cause the crash. And even if you count those crashes, a North Atlantic flight is still safer, mile by mile, than a transcontinental one: it is the safest kind of flying you can buy.
You could be cynical. You could snicker: “There are no mountains out there they can hit.” That is true, and important. The long hop over water does cut out some of the toughest problems of overland flying. But obviously it presents tough problems of its own. Those problems have required solutions of their own, some brilliant brain work by designers, weathermen, and pilots. What has made the most dangerous of all flights the safest are six ideas: the six tricks, you might call them, of ocean flying.
Number one was a study of Chance. Result: the transatlantic airliner must have four engines. Over the United States, two are enough. Navy pilots fly over lots of water behind single engines. But for the sacred pay passenger, across the old Atlantic, you need those four fans—no less, no more. Why?
Because engines do quit—once in about 5,000 hours of running, on the average. At least, that is the figure last published. The current figure, probably 6,000, maybe 7,000 hours, is hard to get. It is a tactless question, of course, and all they give you is a baby stare: “Engine failure? What’s that?” or they say, “Restricted,” or “It all depends.” So you have to check by sampling. For example, I asked a flight engineer who herds four engines back and
Reprinted from Harper's Magazine, May, 1948 Copyright, 1948 by Harper & Brothers. All Rights Reserved