whirlwinds. Or, in the cautious double-talk of scientists when they really don’t quite know: weather, outside the Tropics and the Arctic, is “associated with” such whirlwinds. At any rate, there are these whirlwinds. They drift slowly about North America, the Atlantic, Europe. They measure about 500 to 1,000 miles across; practically any wind we ever get is in reality part of such a whirl. On any one day, two or three of them may whirl between Europe and America, some clockwise, some counter-clockwise. So, if you know where they are and which way around they turn, you can hop on each whirlwind on the side that gives you a tailwind. It may mean a detour almost up to Greenland or halfway down to the Azores, but the tailwinds more than make up for the two or three hundred extra miles.
This style of flying was first shown by old Dr. Eckener on the Graf Zeppelin. He had been a student of weather before he ever flew, and he needed this knowledge, for the airship was so slow that a 60-mph headwind could virtually hold it stationary. Even with its enormous endurance, it might have run out of fuel had Eckener tried to beat his way toward America stupidly against the strong Westerlies. But he sashayed all over the ocean, riding the tailwinds. Present ocean airplanes are three times as fast; wind bothers them less. But even so, Pressure Pattern Flying saves 45 minutes one trip, an hour the next. It pays not only because those airplanes cost several dollars a minute to fly: it has helped make the tough westbound trip possible with decent regularity and better payloads.
To work it right takes brains, a basic understanding of weather, and some radar. This is where the wind pattern turns out to be a “pressure pattern.” Those rotating wind systems cause (or are caused by?— well, are “associated with”) pressure disturbances in the atmosphere which show up on the barometer. That’s what makes the barometer so important in all weather business; why the old sea dog is always tapping his “glass.” Where a “cyclone,” a counter-clockwise wind system, is blowing, the barometers are low; lowest at the center of the whirl. In the region of an
“anti-cyclone,” a clockwise wind system, barometers are high; highest at the center. Pressure and wind are mathematically connected; mark a bunch of barometer readings from a region on a map, draw lines through all places which have the same pressure, and you have drawn the streamlines of the wind! When the map shows this:
Now it seems simple. The Weather Bureau will hand you a neat folder containing a neatly-drawn weather map: “Here, captain, is your weather.” Pick your path: detour to the left around the Highs and to the right around the Lows; then go ahead and fly.