forth between Paris and New York: sure enough, in 100 round trips he had “lost” an engine twice; it worked out at just about once in 5,000 engine hours. But never mind the exact figure. Main point: there is a figure somewhere around there; and you can’t say, “Well, if you want to fly the Atlantic, you will just have to be extra careful.” The figure goes for people who already are extra careful! It means: man is not perfect, not even an engineer; and neither are his works.
The odds, therefore, that a single-engine will get you across the Atlantic are about 500 to 1. A good sporting proposition, but if the airlines used single-engined ships, they would have one in the drink every few weeks!
So now—twins. If a twin-engined airplane “loses” one engine, it can keep flying on the other. The chance that two independent engines should happen to quit in the same hour is 1:25,000,000; which is a mathematical way of saying “practically impossible.” This is what has taken the gamble out of flying and put the airlines into business.
But over the ocean, two engines are not enough. If one of them should quit, you would find it hard to remain so nonchalant. You would now realize that when you figured out those odds of one-in-25-million, you fooled yourself. It would be true if your two engines were really independent of each other; but they are not. They are not physically connected with each other, but they have identical histories. What was it that made your left engine quit? What if the same thing is now gnawing on your right engine also? The same flaw in the material? The same weak point in design? If some dreamy mechanic forgot to safety an important nut on the left engine—has he forgotten on the right one, too? And, now that you have lost one engine, you must run the other at almost full throttle, in order to keep flying. If there is any flaw, hard running will show it up. Five thousand hours per engine failure goes for conservative cruising—at little more than half power. Run them harder, and they quit more often.
Over land, these worries are not important. The nearest airport, by law, can’t be more than 45 minutes away—if a
twin-engined airplane is used in regular airline service. Actually, it’s probably only 20 minutes—and of course downhill. At any rate, it seems to work: that second engine always brings everybody home. But if you were four hours from the nearest land ....
That is just nerve-strain. Probably, the engine would stay with you. But you have another wrong. A twin with one engine dead is a lame duck. It flies, but only just. The power pulls all on one side, making it fly a little crab wise. This causes much extra drag. Your air speed goes way down. If you have a stiff headwind, you can’t make much ground speed. You can’t climb well; you can’t fly high. If you pick up ice, you may be slowly forced down to the water. The hard-working engine gets hot, and you open your cowl flaps—and so get still more drag and still less speed. Also, you run on rich mixture—which wastes fuel. Your miles-per-gallon go way down. If you lost an engine over the middle of the Atlantic, you might run out of gas far from land.
And—follow me through this—in a twin you are of course twice as liable to engine trouble as you would be in a single-engined ship. With two engines that can act up, your chance that one of them will act up is twice as great. And if the other engine then won’t take you home—it is a paradox, but over the middle of the ocean a single-engined airplane may be safer than a twin!
The tri-motor is out of fashion just now.
Four fans then. Now your chance of losing one engine is of course four times what you would have on a single-engined ship. But the difference is: it now makes no difference. Your climb, your speed, your miles-per-gallon are still oceanworthy. Only one-fourth of your power has quit. The three live engines make up for it without straining, without overheating. Therefore, they don’t gang up on you: one engine failure doesn’t invite another.
There has been one freak exception. It happened over the ocean, but not on the North Atlantic run. One engine caught fire. They stopped it and got the fire out. But meanwhile the landing wheel, tucked