gasoline. It has made Pressure Pattern Flying practical. It has taken much of the freehand drawing out of the weather map. Pilots now report their “D-Factor” regularly. They have come to appreciate that it is not red tape or abstruse theory, but simply the next man’s weather map, and they take careful readings. The “D-Factor” has made it possible to run Weather Patrol flights, and continuously radio-in some hard, numerical results. And, by watching his own D-Factor, a pilot who has detoured perhaps close to Greenland can now check: if the tailwinds won’t develop, his D-Factors will tell him in time. Now he can hitch a ride on a whirlwind and not take a chance.
V
The fifth trick of ocean flying is always to know where you are—even when you are over the middle of nowhere. If you want to get an ocean pilot’s goat, just ask him: “What do you want to know for? Just keep on flying until you hit a large continent! You can’t miss it!” That isn’t it. Any pilot can find his way across by compass and watch: at least, ninety-nine times out of a hundred. The airline captain wants to cross in style: pick the best winds; waste the least time, and all the time check, check. That’s an airline pilot’s life anyway: a constant bookkeeper-ish checking to cut out the guess work and guard against that one time out of a hundred. He checks on his fuel, his speed, his wind, his weather map. But all the checking means nothing unless he knows exactly where he is.
At four miles a minute, to keep track of yourself through day and night, in clouds, below them or on top, is a sixty-minute-an-hour job. All ocean airplanes therefore carry a navigator. He scribbles away in a little office, complete with bookshelf and desk, right behind the captain’s seat. And he is the busiest man aboard. In fact, he thinks he is the one who runs the flight. The captain, of course, doesn’t agree.
Wind is the trouble. If it were not for wind, you would just point your nose where you want to go, fly for a calculated time at a steady speed, and there you would be. But the wind spoils that. It
holds you back, shoves you forward, drifts you sidewise—and you can’t feel it. If you can see the water, you can watch the drift. The surface does not flow straight backward under you, as the pavement does under a car, but a little sidewise. The naked eye is uncertain, though. The travel of the waves makes optical illusions. So you peer down at the water through a drift-sight and watch the foam. The foam of a breaking wave stays where it broke, while the wave itself rolls away. You turn a knob until a patch of white just slides down a hairline; then read off a scale the angle at which you are drifting sidewise.
But most of the time you can’t see the ocean. So you use radio. A beam, which marks a definite flight path over land, won’t work at sea. It needs a station every one hundred miles. Just talking on the radio does no good either, of course. You need a radio with a sense of direction. The idea is this: if you know, of two radio stations, where they are, and if you can find out in which direction each lies from you, then you know where you are. As an over-land example: if New York is due East of you, Washington due South, then you can be only in one place: Freeburg, Pennsylvania. The sense of direction lies in the loop-shaped aerial you see on airplanes, on steamers, even on fishing boats and yachts. Such a loop antenna receives loudly when turned at some angle to the sending station. It receives nothing at all when held at another angle. If you twist it back and forth while listening, you can therefore tell the direction of the station. The fancier sets do the thing automatically: you tune in on the station, throw a switch, and a needle points to the station. You use such a “direction finder” on broadcast stations, or on the transatlantic commercial wireless stations, or on special aeronautical beacons; or on a weather ship. It is very accurate close-up, and will lead you unfailingly to the station; but it gets hazy with distance. Out over the middle of the ocean, it isn’t apt to tell you more than you already know. Also, it is troubled by static. Then the Direction Finder needle hunts aimlessly around—or points to the nearest thunderstorm. And if you try to do it by ear, the earphones are full of “hash.”