To run an engine slowly while it pulls hard—that also saves gas, for the same reason that an overdrive in a car saves gas: the engine wastes less of its energy on sliding its own parts over each other. It puts out more useful work. But to run an engine that way goes against the average pilot’s grain—just as it goes against yours to force your car up a steep hill in high gear. The engine tends to knock—and in an airplane you don’t even hear it: you can blow a cylinder head off before you know it. In ordinary flying, where gassaving does not matter, pilots therefore do just the opposite—work the engine lightly but let it rev freely.
As for lean mixture, that’s another taboo. It does save gas, but it also invites “knocking” and it can scorch the engine’s insides. The automobile people long ago quit giving the customer a mixture control: let him waste a little gas money by always being safely on the rich side; it is better than to let him run up a repair bill. In . many flying schools, too, the mixture control is wired down for Full Rich, so students won’t ruin the engine.
But the keen minds in Pan American saw what everyone else seems to have overlooked: that these three evils—mushing airplane, laboring engine, lean mixture—would combine into a triangular pattern that was good. In mushing flight you don’t need much power; at low power an engine won’t knock even if you make it labor; and also, at low power, a lean mixture can’t do much harm.
The gains are not spectacular, but they count. As an example take again the DC-3, although it is not really an ocean airplane. Earlier, we gave it four transatlantic pay passengers by smoothing out its skin. Now, by cruising it at maximum range, we can make it do two and one-half miles per gallon instead of the normal two. On an Atlantic crossing that means about 250 gallons you do not have to carry: seven additional pay passengers you do carry, with chairs and baggage.
A pilot has to know exactly, of course, what he is doing. It is dynamite—with only a small step from perfectly all right to all wrong. (That is why an ocean airliner carries a flight engineer: the pilots haven’t time to watch the engines closely
enough.) Pan American’s secret lay not in the general idea but mostly in the boring tedious details: the power-curves, the cruising charts, the procedure manuals that catch the exceptions and the special cases. Just how lean can you run a Model G engine? What settings of the power-controls would give you 500 horsepower with the least fuel consumption at 1,000 feet? At 8,000 feet? In the tropics? In cold air? Fly Model D airplane, when fully loaded, at 127 mph. As you burn off your fuel and become lighter, gradually slow up to 115. But in a 40-mile headwind, fly it at 131.
This could not all be figured out at desks. It took test work. For years, Pan Am’s early flying in South America was half business, half research. The men who made the long, sweaty tropical runs were not free just to get it over with: they had to hold carefully controlled conditions; take down dozens of instrument readings every quarter hour; write stacks of reports. Hundreds of such flights had to be analyzed statistically, to get some truth hidden beyond the chance play of weather and engine caprice.
When the war suddenly put everybody —Army, Navy, domestic airlines—into ocean flying, Pan Am turned over their findings to the government. Maximum Range Cruise was an important ingredient in the air war, the ferry route to Europe, the B-29 raids on Japan, the Air Transport Command.
Even then it took a long time to teach the trick to the boys who did the actual flying. Mushing; lean mixture; an almost-knocking engine: it didn’t seem right. And they simply did not believe the brass hats and long-hairs and manufacturers’ Tech Reps who claimed it was. Lindbergh himself finally went to the Pacific, flew with them, and showed them how to squeeze the last mile out of a tankful of gas.
IV
The fourth trick of ocean flying is to grab yourself a tailwind. This is called Pressure Pattern Flying. You get the idea right away if we call it Wind Pattern Flying.
Weather consists of big, slow-moving