Some airlines try to get around this by using a cousin of radar, called Loran. It is an amazing system. You match two “pips” of light on a fluorescent screen by turning some knobs. You read off some figures, and look up your position on a special Loran map, much as some city map might tell you that Greenwood Avenue is at F-7. When Loran works, you can locate yourself within a mile, anywhere on the North Atlantic. But it is also often troubled by static—and especially in weather when you need it most. Then the greenish fluorescent line, which should show an unmistakable pip, like this:
looks instead like this:
“Grass,” they call it. Then you had better have something else up your sleeve.
Flying on top, you use the sun or stars: time-honored celestial navigation. It is not really a black art. But the aerial seafarer has one problem the mariner has not. What you have to measure, with your sextant, is the height of the sun or the star above the horizon. The rest is done by looking things up in books. To get worthwhile results, you must measure accurately. An error of 1/60 of one degree means an error of one mile. (A lower-case letter on this page, seen at reading distance, is about of one degree high.) With a mariner’s sextant, you pull the sun down until its bottom (the “lower limb,” they call it) just rests on the sea horizon. This of course is done with mirrors, by turning knobs. When you are through, you read the height off a scale. But in the air you have often no clear-cut sea horizon. So they put an artificial horizon on the sextant: a sort of carpenter’s level. As you look at the star, you also see a faintly-lit bubble floating in your field of vision. And you turn knobs until the star sits on the bubble. (This sounds simple, tut the bubble used to
jump clear out of your field of vision if your hand was not completely steady. It has taken the brightest optical men twenty years just to calm that bubble down so you can catch it with your star.) But of course the liquid slops around in flight; even smooth flight is not really steady. So your bubble is not a reliable mark, to measure against, at any one instant: you have to observe for two minutes, keep the star and bubble together as best you can, and let the slopping about average out. That takes high skill. It is like aiming a rifle to shoot one bullseye after another. And that isn’t all. While you watch the star for those two minutes, it changes its position in the heavens. So they built in an “averaging machine” to give you, at the end, the averaged-out height of your star at the middle instant of your observation!
But it goes on: you need an observatory. All ocean airplanes have an “astrodome,” a transparent bubble to give the navigator a complete view of the heavens. I said before that every single thing on the airplane has cost a life. The astrodome did. George L. Hart was taking sights at 19,000 feet over the middle of the Atlantic, in the middle of the night. It was a pressure-cabin airplane, and the astrodome burst: air from all over the ship rushed out through the hole, and Hart was lifted out into the night. It takes about two minutes to fall from 18,000 feet to sea level; so one can’t even claim that he never knew what happened. Now on some lines, navigators wear a heavy harness; but they are still tense. “It would only suck you halfway out, and then the air-stream would take off your head.” Besides, an astrodome causes extra drag. To push one across the Atlantic takes a lot of fuel. So now comes the sextant that pokes out through the roof, like the periscope.
But what if the stars are hidden, the sea is dark, the Loran screen shows grass, and the radio is full of hash? Well, the brain still works, and so do your two altimeters, the Absolute and the Sensitive.
This is the latest thing in ocean flying circles: how to keep track of yourself by altimeter. It is the Pressure Pattern idea again, with a new twist.