from being sucked into the airplane. Now that is solved; but you still have to take the extra strain off the wings in rough air. The wings push up; the cabin, full of passengers, pushes down: the strain on the wing-root becomes greater with every added pound put in the cabin. Answer: put the extra load into the wing itself. The wing of an ocean airplane is actually a fuel tank—all the way out to the wing-tip. It is a tank that carries itself and carries the airplane too. The four engines spaced out along the wings also help spread the weight.
The ideal would be to lay the passengers out into the wing also—have each part of the wing carry its portion of the weight upon itself. Then all down-forces would cancel all up-forces everywhere, and the wobbliest, lightest wing would be strong enough. Meanwhile, even this first approach toward that idea does wonders.
A Constellation weighs 57,000 pounds empty. By conventional standards, you would expect it therefore to carry perhaps 28,000 pounds of payload and fuel. But it carries 45,000. Its range, dividing its carrying capacity fifty-fifty between pay and fuel, is 2,750 miles.
Ill
The third trick of ocean flying is to save gas: to fly the airplane so that it will do the most miles per gallon. This is where the pilot comes in. The idea is not, of course, to save the trifling price of a few hundred gallons. The idea is to save the terrific cost of carrying so much with you. Figure it out: a gallon has been taken on in Scotland to be finally burned, eight hours later, just east of Newfoundland: it has been shipped by air express, so to speak, across most of the Atlantic. It costs very nearly $9.00 a gallon: because the pilot thought he would need that one gallon, he left nine dollars’ worth of pay-load behind! Of course the airlines carry plenty of fuel reserves; they must, by law. The captain studies the forecast of headwinds and tailwinds; then he makes a pessimistic estimate of how much he will use; then he adds something like 750 miles’ worth of extra gas, which he does not expect to use. But that need for extra
flying range makes it all the more important to get the most miles from each gallon.
The trick of “maximum range cruise” was first developed by Pan American— with Lindbergh as adviser. You do three things: (1) Fly very slowly. An airplane that the domestic airlines cruise at 180 mph, you cruise at 130. (2) Shift to overdrive, so to speak: set your throttles and your propeller controls so that the engines turn slowly but labor hard. (3) Run on a lean mixture: set carburetor controls so that the engines suck in more air and less gasoline.
Now all this is precisely what you do in a car if you are low on gas and want to stretch it to the nearest filling station; except that cars today no longer have that mixture lever they used to have—remember, up on the wheel, along with the “spark”? It seems only common sense. Yet, it became a sort of trade secret of Pan Am’s—one reason why they could run those awkward flying boats so far, why for a whole decade no other airline could compete with them in ocean flying. What kept it more or less veiled was this: each of these three things goes smack against the training of any well-brought-up pilot.
is for slow flight, it just plain feels bad.
/\ Every pilot has it drummed into X JL him that safety lies in speed, and if you fly too slowly, you stall or spin. Of course, “max. range” is way above stalling speed, and not dangerous; but you do get that squashy feeling which is a pilot’s danger signal. The wing lets you sink a little all the time. So you have to point your nose up and climb a little all the time just to keep your altitude! Pilots call this slow, nose-high gait “mushing.” It feels as if you were walking up a sand dune, and the sand kept sliding back under your steps. It feels inefficient; it is inefficient, as far as the wing is concerned. But at the same time the slow speed makes the cabin easier to push through the air, and the airplane’s skin slides more easily. Maximum Range Cruise is simply a golden mean between Too Fast for the Cabin and Too Slow for the Wing. It is the one speed at which the airplane, as a whole, slides most easily.