same as four pay passengers, complete with baggage and chairs! Of course the DC-3 has only two engines, and four passengers don’t make a payload; and anyway, you can’t doctor up an existing design. But it shows what can be done— and why all the new big airplanes have a “flush-riveted” smooth skin.
There also were airscoops to streamline, cooling ducts to clean up, windshields to curve, all sorts of “parasite drag” to get rid of. In streamlining, every bit of smoothing-out makes a big difference, as the fish found out a million years ago. And smoothing of detail has made a big difference in airplanes. You can measure the slipperiness of an airplane by an engineering figure. For every 1,000 pounds of airplane weight, how many pounds of forward pull must the propeller furnish to keep it flying? A 1920 strut-and-wire biplane was hard to pull: 200 pounds. A DC-3 is easier to pull: 90 pounds. A Constellation is easier still: it’s 57 pounds! The thing slides more easily: less gasoline drives it further: more of its carrying capacity can be used for payload.
But the business-office knows no such thing as “enough” payload; a pilot, no such thing as “too much” gas. However efficient your airplane, you always would like to add still more load. And there is a formula by which you can do it. Most of the early ocean flights were made by it. It goes: “Hell, load it on. She’ll fly Okay.” It’s true. Any average airplane will fly all right, even if you load it way beyond what the designer had in mind. The catch is—you take risks. Your take-off is long-drawn-out; your climb is labored and overheats your engine. Your landings are fast; and if you make a hard one, your landing gear may buckle. In a twin, you can no longer fly single-engine. In rough air, your wings may come closer to the breaking point than you think. All around, all safety margins are reduced. If the designer knew what you are doing, he would have a fit. But she will Jly okay.
Now if you do the obvious things— beef up your wings and gear, soup up your engine, add some wing— you get back into the vicious cycle: you merely wind up with a bigger airplane.
The problem now is to take an airplane more-or-less as it is, and make it carry extra weight without extra risk. If your long take-off run calls for a big airport— well, get a big airport. That is the real reason why ocean flying was at first done in flying boats: not because a flying boat was safer in a forced landing. A “ditched” landplane, with proper flotation gear, might be almost as safe; and anyway, if forced landings were likely, you wouldn’t want to run an airline. No: boats made sense because in those days there were no big airports, least of all abroad; and a flying boat “carries its own airport on its bottom.” Pan American’s heavily-loaded boats would sometimes skim for miles before they finally lurched into the air.
Then the war put big airports everywhere. That put the landplane into ocean business. Actually you can take off a bigger load in a landplane than in a seaplane, if you have enough runway: you are not held back by water-friction. Almost all the early transatlantic fliers used landplanes. But they had to use Harbour Grace, Newfoundland, a small, saucershaped affair, hard to get out of; or the beach at Old Orchard, Maine, which of course was sand, and was farther from Europe; or New York runways, still farther. Now there is a mile or better of runway available at half a dozen places on each side of the water, and what was risky then is now safe.
As for landing with a heavy load—after the flight across, the excess weight is burned up anyway. Should the captain change his mind and return after take-off, he has dump valves. He can get rid of his excess fuel. These dump-valves, though: almost everything you find on an airplane has cost a life once. Dump-valves killed Ed Musick, the Pan American pilot who did most of the pioneer work in airline-style ocean piloting. On a survey flight (no passengers) he had just taken off from Pago Pago. Some little thing went wrong. He radioed that he would return and was dumping fuel. Then the airplane blew up in a huge flame.
The government at once sealed all dump-valves on all airliners. New research started: they dumped tanks of perfume in flight to find out how to keep the vapors