can Clipper to Oslo, about 13 V2 hours (elapsed time) from New York. By ship, 7 days to Bergen, 8 days to Oslo.
ACCOMMODATIONS. . . Norway’s hotels are crowded, so make your reservations well in advance. The beautiful Grand is completely redecorated. It’s located in the middle of Oslo on the Karl Johans Gate; the rates are from $5.50 a day for single room and bath. Quiet and gracious service is the keynote at the Bristol. Rates begin at $5.00 at this excellent hotel. Other first-class hotels in the same price bracket are the Continental, the modern comfortable Carlton Hotel, the “KNA” (Royal Norwegian Motor Club), the Hotel Norum and on the Holmenkollen Hill overlooking Oslo and the harbor, the Hollmenkollen Hotel. The large new Viking Hotel with all modern conveniences has rates starting as low as $2.40. The Mission hotels are a good bet all over Scandinavia for those with limited budgets and a taste for simple comfort.
ARTS. .. Oslo has a large variety of museums and galleries. The Viking Ship Museum is unique. Ships and other objects of old Viking culture are on display. The Ski Museum has exhibits tracing 2,500 years in the history of this sport and method of transportation. The National Open Air Museum is a restored village of medieval Norwegian times. The Vigeland Museum contains the work of Vigeland, Norway’s greatest sculptor. The Historical Museum is devoted to ethnological and artistic exhibitis of Norwegian culture. The Museum of the Polar Ship Fram has interesting exhibits concerning this ship’s famous arctic expedition and other polar explorations. The Kon-Tiki raft is also on view. Also of interest are the National Galleries, the .Museum of Industrial Art, the Theater Museum and the beautifully decorated new Town Hall. Most museums open at noon.
BANKS. . . Den Norske Creditbank, Christiana Bank og Kredit-kasse, Bergens Privatbank. Most hotels, large restaurants and stores and the American Express Company will also cash traveler’s checks.
CALENDAR OF HOI IDAYS. . . Jan. 1, Mi v 1 May 17 (Independence Day), Whitsun, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, ..»aund« Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Sunday and Easter Monday.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS AND TOBACCO. . . Take all you are allowed under customs regulations. Duty on additional quantities is very high. However, local brands of American-blended cigarettes are good ana plentiful. See customs regulations.
CLIMATE... The sunlit nights are a wonde. feature of the summer in Norway. From April to September the nights are very short, and around midsummer you can read a newspaper out of doors at midnight. Above the Arctic Circle, the sun shines 24 hours a day Thanks to the Gulf Stream, the c.i in Norway is temperate, ne«-very hot or very cold. (See tempt dure chart.) For winter sporr, January, February, March and April „re ideal.
CLUBS... Lions and Rocai “dubs in mos' large centers.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... F downs take the place of top sheets even in the hotels, aithoi’~’ can get blankets and top sheet at good hotels. Dress is informal, the