sary at many hotels that own rights. The equipment and boats are available at reasonable cost. Sailing and swimming also rank high. The Oslo Golf Club’s course at Bogstad is ideal. There are also golf courses in Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. Tourists are welcome.
Norwegian alps are a mountain climber’s delight. Cyclists and hikers will find pleasant rolling countryside beneath the snow-capped peaks. Winter ski lodges become hostels for the hikers and climbers in the summer months. The hunting is wonderful. Deer and moose abound for the big-game hunter. A license is inexpensive. Rabbit, fox, hare and game birds are abundant. All in all, Norway is a year-round sportsman’s paradise.
THEATERS... In Oslo the National Theater stages classical drama, modern literary plays and light comedy. There is an annual Ibsen cycle. The New Theater devotes itself to light plays, the Central to light opera. Chat Noir is the oldest music hall with up-to-date revues.
TIME. . . Six hours later than U.S. Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . .. Hotels add 10 or 15 per cent service charge to your bill. Don’t tip more except to the baggage porters and for special services. Follow the 10 to 15 per cent rule in your other tipping. The krone is worth about 15 cents in U.S. currency.
TR ANSPORTATION. . . Taxis and bus service are available in Oslo Good train and air service is maintained to other parts of the country, especially the big tourist resorts. Drive-yourself cars are available for hire at very reasonable rates.
WATER . . . Excellent.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Norwegian enamelware and silver are your best buys. Native C’ products are beautiful. They include textiles, glassware, embroid .es, brassware and leather goods. Furs are marvelous and Norwegian skis a j the finest in the world. Prices are a good deal lower than they ar, at home but our duty is high.
WH r TO V R . . .	in heav} clothing is a must for Nor-
w v in win.a. me Norwegian concep of heating makes for much ce homes than our own, so bring dressy wool clothes for evening.
< suits and dresses are formal enough for Oslo night life. Business and sports suits for men. Sweaters and raincoats for both sexes. Medium-weight .othes for summer wear w 1 be most suitable. Leav lightweight cl .ons and silks at home. Wa c’ hes are needed for sailing, skiing hiking and climbing. Norwegian winQo are cold.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING. . .
Oslo. .. The 900-year-old city of Oslo is full of fascinating things to see. The town is surrounded by wooded hills nd distant snowcapped peaks. You’ll want to se. the changing of the guards at the r**'W«i Palace, the beautiful bi . es of the University of Oslo, the aal Theater wi*h its sta f Bjornson ar ’ rjsen, and the Tn,~/' ate where the prizes .e awarded. Stroll through beauti-’ate Park. There are band concerts and outdoor ■ ne» t" K. ,'dieval castle, Akershus, built by Haakon the ■0 'c- a must. A trip up the Holmenkollen behind the city offers