lovely cathedral begun in the eleventh century and still being built today. Norway’s great Technical School is here. The River Nid runs through the town and can be crossed by four graceful bridges. Sailing, fishing and skiing are all wonderful near Trondheim. Cozy and cheerful ski lodges offer simple accommodations. The Britannia, Astoria and the Bristol are the good hotels in the town itself.
Lillehammer . . . The charming village of Lillehammer is the center of the greatest skiing in Norway (4 hours by train from Oslo). Champions from all over the world come here to ski. The slopes are wonderful. Good mountain-lodge accommodations are available. The Victoria is the best hotel in town.
There are several circular motor-coach tours out of Oslo which take from 5 to 10 days. These tours take in all the points of interest. Remember that Norway is an enormous country; distances are great and there is lots to see. But whatever itinerary you decide to follow, be sure to include the fjords.
The Fjords ... To go to Norway without seeing some of the gr fjords is like going to Paris without se^’ng the Louvre. The fjo are in the western part of the courm	,nd are often a mile d-
and as high. Most famous are Hare	fjord, Sognefjord, Romsc
fjord, Geirangerfjord and Lyngenf :r ’ The most comfortable \ to see the fjords is on one of the cO ,tal steamem which run alo the rugged west coast. It is also possi) !e to go by rr or regular 1 service, and take some of the local fe les. There ai • for instance sc eral ferry trips to be made and > ou see some magnificent fjor scenery. The steamers make stops v uch allow for half-day inland ex cursions. In the early summer thr i is perpetual sunlight, so if yoi are touring the fjords at this time ' is almost impossible to tear you self away from the scenery to sle j.
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged forn;., only one of 89 countries described in ■ detail in Pan American’s lost-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel t;nS weather charts, nhot graph ud laps. Pick , </	.* t _,
at an.	m office or u • ve ogen; 1
or write Pan American, L ^ , P.'T Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. v>n $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
ipper and Horizons, Trade-Marks, Pan American World Airways, Inc. 20/.