The fjord country in western Norway offers magnificent scenery from your excursion steamer. This scene is near Bergen, about 300 miles northwest of Oslo.
a wonderful view. Oslo was the site of the 1952 v'/inter Olympics. There’s the Holmenkollen Recreation Center here too. A visit to the harbor with its bustling market places will give you a good idea of native life. Just wandering around the medieval part of the city will be like going back over 500 years in the life of the country.
Plan to see the Vigeland Scu'pture Park, the Kon-Tiki balsa raft from the famous expedition, the Open Air Museum and the Viking .Ships Museum at Bygdoy, in the outskirts of Oslo and the other museums mentioned under arts. These are just a few of the marvelous things to do in the interesting city of Oslo. There are also regular sightseeing tours by boat down the Oslo Fjord. They start from the Town-Hall.
Bergen... is Norway’s second largest c;tv (12 hours by train from Oslo or 114 hours by air). The town has \ derfully harmonious examples of medieval, Renaissance and strikingly ¡odern architecture.
See the Mariakirken Church. Built ii the twelfth century, it is the oldest building in Bergen. T' e Hansea.-c Museum gives an excellent idea of the culture of old orway. . .¿.re is a	rt g, ’ery ° d
ethnological collection in hie Bergen University, . aher in,	lg
sight. Other things to sr e include the harbor and market olac	"he
home of Edvard Grieg, the great Norwegian composer, and Norwegian Stave churches. Leading hotels in Bergen include tne Bristol, the Norge, the 1rand Hotel Terminus ai^ the brand new Orion. Single mom	about $3 with bath. Side trip may be made
to the beautiful fjords around Bergen. It’s also the sta ting point for the famous coastal express steamers to the Land of the Midr.lght Su
Stavanger. . . Norway’s third largest city is the new gateway tc the Norwegian f'jrds. (11 hours by train or 1 hour by air from Oslo.) The hotel facilities here ■ m excellent. The Alstor Hotel, Atlantic Hotel and Hotel Victor'V> a nave fine accommodation0 'T' Atlantic Hote : ‘he newest and f the fine- t in northern E ’	-■***
In the vicinity of Stavanger you ave the Sola Hotel a ’ F Hotel, well-known sea resorts.
Trondheim ... is the principal city in north _Ai jrw?u.	%■
hours by train from Oslo, 114 hours by air). There is a fa1- %.