best resort hotels dinner jackets are expected only in winter season.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone, telegraph, and cable facilities are available.
CURRENCY. . . The krone is the principal monetary unit. There are 7.15 kroner to the dollar.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS. . . Unlimited dollars, 2 bottles of liquor, 400 cigarettes or 80 cigars or 500 grams of tobacco may be brought into Norway duty free. Also 300 kroner in and 99 kroner out, no larger than 50 kroner denominations. You need no visa to enter Norway, only your United States passport. Bring your driver’s license if you wish to hire a car.
DRUG STORES . . . Norwegian drug stores carry many American products or their European equivalents.
ELECTRIC CURRENT... The voltage in Norway is 220 A.C., except for Stavanger, with 110 a.c. and Trondheim with 150 a.c.
FAUNA. .. Norwegian waters abound with many species of fish. Both salt-water and fresh-water fishing are excellent. Big-game animals include bear, moose and reindeer. Many small wild animals are found in Norwegian forests, including wolf, fox, lynx, otter and beaver. There are also game birds, grouse being the most abundant.
FLORA . . . The beautiful forests of Norway are mainly spruce, fir and pine trees. Birch trees are everywhere. The vegetation of the valleys of southern Norway is very beautiful. Wild berries are plentiful and flowers are profuse in the gorgeous spring season.
FOOD . . . Breakfast is a large meal with a cold buffet. Fish is served in great variety. Dinner is apt to be at 4:30. Tea and sandwiches at 9:00 p.m. Tourists don’t have to eat at these hours, however. Good a la carte meals are available at all times.
LANGUAGE. . . English is spoken everywhere. It’s taught in the schools.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . There are good cleaning anT laundry services in all principal towns. Inquire at your hotel.
LIQUOR . . . Beer and aquavit are very popular. The liquor stores {Vinmonopolet) carry all varieties of wine and liquor.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Modern hospitals and excellent doctors are available. Ski centers have well-equipped first-aid centers, with resident doctors. Inquire at your hotel if you need a doctor.
MOTION PICTURES . .. The latest American and English pictures are shown in Oslo with Norwegian subtitles. Be on time for performances, because late-comers may not remain at the end of a program to catch the beginning. Good cinema houses include the Saga, Klingenberg, Colosseum, and the Gimle. See local papers for time and features.
MUSIC . . . The Oslo Symphony Orchestra is outstanding. Norwegian folk music is very beauh ’I and an important part of the life of the people, having inspired Edvard Grieg and other composers. The International Festival of Music is in Bergen May 30 to June 15.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... In Oslo Telle Cabaret has