fine entertainment and serves all sorts of drinks. Telle Grill is small, exclusive and smart. The Rainbow Room is the biggest night club in Oslo, with a large orchestra and floor show. The Hotel Bristol has the formal Moorish Hall. George’s is also very pleasant.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . Camera equipment, black-and-white and color, still and movie film are available at reasonable prices. Developing facilities are available and the quality of work is good. Developing takes from 2 to 7 days. Special service will be given to tourists. Recommended for photo purchases and services: J. L. Nerlien A/S., N. Slottsgate 13, Oslo. Some of the more interesting subjects for photographs are: the magnificent new Town Hall, the harbor with Akers-hus Castle, Holmenkollen, Frognerseteren and the Frogner Park with the Vigeland sculptures. Take plenty of film to the fjord region.
RELIGION .. . Norway is a Lutheran country. Churches of other sects in Oslo include Catholic, Episcopal, Presbyterian, and a synagogue. Catholic churches in other large cities.
RESTAURANTS. . . In Oslo you will find a large number of fine places to dine and dance. The Frognerseter Restaurant up in the Holmenkollen Hills overlooking Oslo and the harbor has a fine dining room. Speilen at the Grand Hotel is very attractive and serves good food. La Belle Sole is outstanding. Blom, which belongs to the Artists’ Association, is a good restaurant. The Hotel Bristol and George’s Grill next to it serve excellent food. The Queen (Royal Norwegian Yacht Club), and the King (Oslo Rowing Club) both have large restaurants with dance floors (May through September). Wimpy’s, with an excellent American style short-order counter, is new.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Steen and Strom in Oslo is Norway’s biggest department store. Maja Jensen is good for tinware, ceramics and toys; David Andersen and Tostrup for silver. Gresvig for sporting goods; Heimen for wood carvings and native craft products; Hjordis Egelund for souvenirs; Husfliden (Association of Home Arts and Crafts) for tapestries, sweaters and all sorts 'T woolens, A must is William Schmidt on Karl Johans Street. A/S Ama, next w PAA’s office, has a nice line of sports clothes and hand-knitted sweaters.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Championship ski competitions are the greatest spectator attraction during the winter and soccer during the summer. Skating races also draw crowds. The Holmenkollen ski competition near Oslo is the first week of March.
SPORTS. . . Most Norwegians who can walk can ski. This is the national sport and Norway is one of the ski capitals of the world. Ski-touring is very popular. Huts and lodges dot the routes of crosscountry runs. Norway is full of all kinds of slopes and jumps, lifts, instructors and cheerful ski lodges. Renting your skis is wiser than bringing them. They are the best in the world and insured against damage. Tobogganing, skating and bob-sledding are also popular.
The fishing in Norway is exce cnt too. You fish for trout and pike in any of the streams or lakes. Salmon fishing is magnificent. You can even lease your own river for about $600 a month or just go where the salmon fishing is. Preliminary arrangements aren’t neces-