Europe "BUDGET TOURS" Planned
you in mind
■
5th Day
6th Day
7th Day 8th Day
16-DAY TOUR IT-PAEC-1
Visiting Italy, Switzerland and France
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive ROME. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
3rd Day In ROME, the Eternal City, where Christian and and Pagan monuments compete in beauty
4th Day and majesty. The sightseeing will include a half-day tour of the Vatican, visiting the Sistine Chapel, the Picture and Tapestry Galleries, Library and Christian Museums as well as other landmarks enroute; a halfday tour to the Roman Forum including also Palatine Hill, Church of St. Peter in Chains and the Basilica of St. Paul Outside the Walls, the Victor Emanuel Chapel and the charming summer resort Tivoli, best known for Villa d’Este and its gardens with its fabulous fountain display, Frascati, Cas-telli Romani and Castelgandolfo, summer residence of the Holy Father.
Leave Rome by de-luxe motorcoach via the Hill Towns of Tuscany to Florence.
In FLORENCE, the museum city of Italian Renaissance art. A morning sightseeing tour will cover some of the most important sights — the Cathedral, Medici Chapels, Pitti Palace and Piazzale Michelangelo.
Leave Florence by morning train to Venice. In VENICE, the romantic city built on more than a hundred islands, criss-crossed by a multitude of canals. The day will be devoted to a tour of the city on foot and by gondola visiting the beautiful Church of St. Mark, the famed Doges Palace, the Bridge of Sighs and the Dungeons; gondola ride on the Grand Canal passing the Rialto Bridge, Church of the Friars and la Rezzonico Palace. Leave Venice by evening train (sleepers provided).
Arrive ROME in the morning. Continue by Alitalia, Linee Aeree Italiane or Swissair plane for Zurich and by connecting train for Berne.
In BERNE, the quaint federal capital of Switzerland. The sightseeing will include a morning tour of the city, and a full-day excursion to beautiful Lucerne and famous Interlaken region.
Leave Berne by morning train for Zurich and by plane to Paris via Air France or Swissair.
In PARIS, the capital of world elegance and fashion. While in Paris the sightseeing will include a tour of the historical sights — Place de ¡’Opera, Rue de ia Paix, Tuiieries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Chate-let, and Place de la Bastille; a tour of the modern city—Madeleine Church, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Dome des Invalides with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc de Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, and an afternoon excursion to Versailles visiting the Palace and grounds, Petit Trianon and Museum of Carriages.
15th Day Leave Paris for New York by Pan American Clipper.
16th Day Arrive New York International Airport.
9th Day
10th Day and
11 th Day
1 2th Day
13th Day and
14th Day
25-DAY TOUR IT-PAEC-2
Visiting England, Holland, Germany, Austria, the Dolomites in Italy, Switzerland and France
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive LONDON. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel. 3rd and 4th Day In LONDON, the sprawling British capital where the pomp of past centuries blends in fascinating fashion with the most modern aspects of the XXth Century. The sightseeing includes a morning tour of Central London — the Strand, Fleet Street, London Bridge, the Tower of London (to view the fabulous Crown Jewels), Bank of England, St. Paul’s Cathedral, bombed areas and the Old Curiosity Shop, and an afternoon tour of the West End, Hyde Park, Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Houses of Parliament, Big Ben, Piccadilly, Regent and Oxford Streets. The next day an excursion through the Shakespeare Country to Stratford-on-Avon.
5th Day Morning plane to AMSTERDAM (PAA-KLM-BEA) the Dutch capital built on a million piles. In Amsterdam, an afternoon motorcoach tour will be made to the picturesque fishing village of Volen-dam and the interesting Isle of Marken. 6th Day After a morning motorcoach tour of the city, including Mint Square, Rokin, Damrak, Weeping Tower, Royal Palace, Rijks-museum, Willemsparkweg and old canals, leave by late afternoon train to COLOGNE.
7th Day 8th Day
9th Day
10th Day
11th Day 12th Day
16th Day 17th Day
18th Day 19th Day
By steamer up the Rhine to Wiesbaden, one of Europe’s best known health resorts. After a morning tour of the city including Kurhaus, Opera, Hot Springs, Neroberg, Greek Chapel, the main city promenade, Biebrich Castle, Henkell Champagne factory and other interesting places, leave by afternoon train to Heidelberg, the romantic old university town on the Neckar.
After a short private automobile tour of the city via Bismarck Square, New Bridge, on right bank of Neckar River (fine view of the old city and castle) to Scheffelhaus (Student Prince’s Home) then via Old Bridge, Market Square, Town Hall, Holy Ghost Church, Ritter Hotel (oldest building in town), Old and New University. Return via Red Ox (old famous Student’s Inn) leave by afternoon train to Munich.
In MUNICH, the Bavarian capital, famous for its baroque houses and monuments. A full-day excursion through the Alps of Bavaria via Wolfratshausen, the Kochel, Walchensee to Mittenwald, famed for its violins. Continue via Garmisch Parten-kirchen and Oberammergau, site of the Passion Plays.
Leave Munich by afternoon train to Salzburg.
In SALZBURG, the picturesque birthplace of Mozart. A half day tour will cover the main points of interest in the city visiting modern city and Old Town with Cathedral, St. Peter’s Church, Mirabell Gardens and other places of interest.
Leave Salzburg by morning motorcoach via the Grossglockner to LIENZ.
Continue into Italy and through the Dolomites to Cortina D’Ampezzo.
In CORTINA D'AMPEZZO, the heart of the craggy Dolomite Mountains.
20th Day
21st Day to
23rd Day
24th Day 25th Day
Leave Cortina by motorcoach and proceed over the Brenner Pass to Innsbruck.
In INNSBRUCK, the colorful center of the Tyrolian Alps. A half-day city tour will cover some of the sights in and around the city including the Old Town with the “Golden Roof”, Mount Isel and Castle Amras.
By morning train to Lucerne.
In LUCERNE, the celebrated Swiss resort on the Lake of Four Cantons. A full-day through the Jungfrau Region will afford a view of one of the most breathtaking panoramas imaginable via Alpnach, Bruning Pass (3,500 ft.) Brienz, Lake of Brienz, Interlaken, Lauterbrunnen, Trummelbach Falls, Grindelwald.
Leave Lucerne by afternoon train to Zurich. Then by plane to Paris via Air France or Swissair.
In PARIS, with its wealth of monuments, museums and priceless art masterpieces. In Paris, a morning tour of the modern city includes Madeleine Church, Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, Dome des Invalides with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc of Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, an afternoon tour of the historical sights via Place de l’Opera, Rue de la Paix, Tuileries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Châtelet, and Place de la Bastille, and an afternoon tour to Versailles via Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, St. Cloud to Versailles. Visit Palace and grounds, Museum of Carriages, and Petit Trianon.
Leave Paris for New York by Pan American Clipper.
Arrive New York International Airport.
32-DAY TOUR IT-PAEC-3
Visiting France, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Holland and England
1st Day Leave New York via Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day Arrive PARIS. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
3rd Day In PARIS, the French capital with its broad
through boulevards, sidewalk cafes, and innumerable
6th Day historical monuments. The sightseeing will include a morning tour of modern Paris — Champs Elysees, Dome des Invalides with Napoleon’s Tomb, and Arc of Triumph, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre, an afternoon tour of historical Paris via Place de 1’Opera, Rue de la Paix, Tuiieries Gardens, Palais de Justice, Sainte Chapelle, Pantheon, Latin Quarter, Sorbonne, Chatelet, and Place de la Bastille. An afternoon tour to Versailles via Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees, St. Cloud to Versaille' Visit Palace and grounds, Museum of Carriages, and Petit Trianon; and a full-day tour to Fontainebleau, Fontainebleau Palace and Gardens.
7th Day Leave Paris by Air France Plane to Nice.
8th Day In NICE, the world famous cosmopolitan and center of the French Riviera. An evening
9th Day drive will be taken to Monte Carlo via the Corniche Road.
10th Day Leave Nice by Air France or British European Airways Plane for Rome.
11th Day In ROME, the Eternal City where western civilization was born. During your stay in
13th Day Rome a complete two-day tour of all the sights of the city including the Vatican with its collection of treasures, the Sistine Chapel, the Roman Forum, the Borghese Gallery, Hadrian’s Tomb, four great basilicas, the Appian Way, the Catacombs, Baths of Cara-calla, the Colosseum, etc.
14th Day By motorcoach via the Hill Towns of Tuscany to Florence.
15th Day	In FLORENCE, the Home of the Medicis
and	where Italian Renaissance art can be ad-
16th Day mired in all its splendor. A full-day tour of the city will include visits to most of the famous monuments such as the Cathedral, Medici Chapel, Pitti Palace (Galleries and Royal Apartments), Piazzale Michelangelo, Uffizi Galleries, Piazza Donatello, San Domenico, and Fiesole.
17th Day By morning train to Venice.
18th Day In VENICE, the Queen of the Adriatic with its Palace-fronted canals. An afternoon gondola ride through the city including some of the inner canals and part of Grand Canal, passing the Rialto Bridge, and visiting some of the famous churches and palaces. Leave Venice by evening train (sleeper provided). Arrive ROME in the morning. Continue by Alitalia, Linee Aeree Italiane or Swiss Air plane for Zurich and by connecting train to Berne.
In BERNE, the delightful federal capital of Switzerland. Sightseeing will include a morning tour of the most interesting city sights and a full-day excursion through Central Switzerland, to Lucerne and Interlaken. Leave Berne by morning train for Zurich. Continue by Sabena Belgian World Airlines or Swissair plane for Brussels.
In BRUSSELS, the Belgian capital with its many medieval buildings. A morning tour will cover the more noteworthy sights of the city including Parliament, Wiertz Museum, Royal Park, King’s Palace, Palace of Justice, Manneken Fountain, Grand Place with Town Hall and the King’s House, etc.
24th Day Leave Brussels by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines or Sabena Belgium World Airlines plane for Amsterdam.
25th Day In AMSTERDAM, the busy and prosperous Dutch capital built on piles. A forenoon tour of the city including Mint Square, Rokin, Rijksmuseum, Willemsparkweg and old canals. Continue in the afternoon via Broek in Waterland, Monnikendam to Vol-endam, the picturesque village and the Isle of Marken.
Leave Amsterdam by British European Airways or KLM Royal Dutch Airlines plane for London.
In LONDON, the sprawling capital of the British Empire. The sightseeing program will include a morning and an afternoon tour of all the sights of London — the Strand, Fleet Street, London Bridge, the Tower of London (to view the fabulous Crown Jewels), Bank of England, St. Paul’s Cathedral, bombed areas and the old Curiosity Shop, Hyde Park, Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Houses of Parliament, Big Ben, Piccadilly, Regent and Oxford Streets — full-day tour through the Shakespeare Country to Stratford-on-Avon.
31st Day Leave London for New York by Pan American Clipper.
32nd Day Arrive New York International Airport.
19th Day
20th Day and
21st Day
26th Day
27th Day through 30th Day