You've always wanted to visit Europe GO NOW ON A BUDGET TOUR
Regardless of what month you choose to go, Europe has something special to offer you. At all times you have a choice of Pan American’s de luxe President and President Special service or “The Rainbow”, popular Clipper Tourist Service.
See and feel the romantic charm of Europe . . . walk over the historic cobble stones of the Tower of London — its very atmosphere making you visualize and relive its moving, powerful past. Wander, leisurely, along the quaint streets of Paris with its fascinating shops, flower and book stalls galore . . . stroll in the majestic Tuileries Gardens, always beautiful, leading up to the famous and impressive Louvre where lived the royalty of yesterday . . . wine and dine in the Parisienne manner like a real gourmet. Visit the enchanting shores of Italy where lived such renowned masters as Michelangelo, Cellini, and the great and wise prince, Lorenzo de Medici. So much is here for you.
Imagine having your complete tour arranged for you in advance so that you won’t miss all the important sites and yet, at the same time, you can still feel “on your own.”
That’s the advantage of choosing one of these independent tours which you can start any day you wish.
Once aboard the plane, you can relax with the realization that everything has already been carefully arranged ... no worries about cost or planning daily itineraries.
i	!
w
Upon arrival, your advance arrangements through American Express Travel Service will assure a warm welcome and a hurdle, too, over any language difficulties.
You’ll come home from Europe on	^ a
your Pan American Clipper with wonderful memories and a desire to return to Europe again soon. You can make a beautiful collection of mementos from each country as everything is made by the hands of expert craftsmen — leather, silver, perfume, clothing, lace and many other desirable items at bargain prices, too!
SEE EUROPE NOW!

TRIP TIPS and GENERAL INFORMATION
What the rates include:
AIR TRANSPORTATION—Between New York and the cities in Europe as indicated in the itineraries, based on Pan American World Airways transatlantic Clipper service.
Included in Tons Price:
SURFACE TRAVEL—First class on trains, lake steamers and river steamers in Europe. For night travel by rail, berths in double sleeping compartments will be provided.
HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS—Rooms with private bath will be provided where available. Accommodations to consist of single rooms for one person traveling alone; twin bedded rooms for.two persons traveling together; triple bedded rooms or twin bedded and single rooms with connecting bath for three persons traveling together and two twin bedded rooms for four persons traveling together. MEALS—Continental (plain) breakfast only will be provided while at hotels, except in Amsterdam, Florence and Venice where continental breakfast and one table d’hote meal will be provided daily.
SIGHTSEEING—Membership provided in standard local excursions: generally by motorcoach, except in Heidelberg where private automobile sightseeing is provided.
TRANSFERS—By taxi or hotel conveyance between city air terminals (not airports), railroad stations and hotels or vice versa. TAXES AND GRATUITIES—As levied locally by governmental or municipal authorities except in Great Britain where gratuities are to be settled directly.
BAGGAGE—The free baggage allowance is 66 lbs. per person on first class flights and 44 lbs. on tourist class flights. Charges for excess baggage will be collected by the arlines at the prevailing tariff rates.
The rates do not include:
Transportation other than shown in the itineraries; cost of passport, visae, laundry or other items of a personal nature; wines, mineral waters and other beverages such as tea or coffee, when not included in the regular menu of the included meals; the cost of meals, automobiles, guides, sightseeing and other services not specified in the itineraries; cost of private automobiles sightseeing tours substituted for motorcoach sightseeing tours where, due to the season, motorcoach tours are not operated; fees, tips to porters for the handling of baggage; meals while en route or on sightseeing tours in Europe.
Cable charges incurred in securing reservations will be for the clients’ account.
RESPONSIBILITY:
American Express Company acts only as agent for the air lines, steamship companies, railroads, or owners or contractors providing means of transportation or other services, and all receipts, contracts and tickets are issued subject to any and all tariffs, terms and conditions under which any means of transportation or any other services whatsoever are provided by such air lines, steamship companies, railroads, or owners or contractors, and issuance and acceptance of any such receipts, contracts and tickets shall be deemed to be consent to the further conditions:
(a)	That neither American Express Company nor any of its affiliated or subsidiary companies shall be or become liable or responsible for any loss, injury or damage to person or property in connection with any means of transportation or other services or resulting, directly or indirectly, from acts of God, dangers incident to the sea, fire, breakdown in machinery or equipment, acts of governments or other authorities, de jure or de facto, wars, whether declared or not, hostilities, civil disturbances, strikes, riots, thefts, pilferage, epidemics, quarantines, customs regulations, delays, or cancellations of or changes in itinerary or schedules, or from any causes beyond the Company’s control, or for any loss or damage resulting from improper or insufficient passports, visas or other documents, and that neither the Company nor any of its affiliated or subsidiary companies shall be or become liable or responsible for any additional expense or liability sustained or incurred by the Purchaser as a result of any of the foregoing causes; and
(b)	That the tickets and/or contracts in use by any air line, steamship company, railroad, owner or contractor providing means of transportation or other services shall constitute the sole contract between such air line, steamship company, railroad, owner or contractor and the Purchaser of the tour and/or the tour member; and
(c)	Pan American World Airways System is not to be held responsible for any act, omission or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passenger ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
Note: Tour prices are based on schedules and fares in effect at the tíme of publication of this folder and are, therefore, subject to change without notice.