RATES
Rates are based on full 24 hour units from time of pick up. If a car is returned at a later hour than when it was picked up, an additional full days rental is usually charged.
All rental rates are based on the official currency of the country of rental. Approximate dollar conversions have been shown for guidance only. These are based on the currency rate at the time of printing (January, 1978); however, rates may change due to currency fluctuations. Rentals from one country to another are quoted at the rate for the country in which the car is rented.
While the daily unlimited mileage rates generally require a minimum 3 day rental, (as indicated above per day rate) it is possible to rent a car for a shorter period. This would be available on a request basis only and the rental companies’ normal time and distance rates would apply.
DEPOSIT
A deposit of $30 is required at the time of confirmation on all car rentals other than prepaid Bargain Cars and U.S. car rentals which must be fully prepaid. This deposit should be paid to your travel agent or Pan Am who will issue a Miscellaneous Charge Order (MCO). The MCO is to be carried with you and presented to the car rental company at the time of pick-up. The $30 will be deducted from your final billing and not from the Security Deposit (see following information on Security Deposit.) In the event of cancellation, full refund of the deposit will be made against the MCO.
PREPAID RENTALS
For Europe: See special Bargain Car Rental Conditions on page 2 and rates on page 22.
For the U.S.: See pages 26 and 28. All U.S. rentals (except Hawaii) must be prepaid.
CAR GROUP
Confirmation is given by Car Group and the client will be provided with one of the car models listed for that group or a similar model. Car preferences will be accepted and we will make every effort to provide type of vehicle desired but cannot guarantee that it will be available at the time of pick up.
SECURITY DEPOSIT AND CONDITIONS OF RENTAL Regardless of whether the rental is prepaid or not prepaid, all major car rental companies require a Security Deposit at the time of pick up plus an amount to cover Government Taxes, gasoline, optional Collision Damage Waiver and/or Personal Accident Insurance, etc. This deposit is refundable in full on termination of the rental less additional charges incurred, if any. If the Collision Damage Waiver is not purchased, a larger deposit up to the deductible amount of the collision insurance may be required.
Non Bargain Car rentals require a payment equal to 125% of the estimated value of the rental at the time of pick up. A signed blank credit card charge slip may be used intead of cash. Acceptable Credit cards are: American Express, BankAmericard and Master Charge. Rental rates do not include gasoline, tolls, garage or parking fees, parking or traffic fines, shipping or ferry charges. A full tank of gasoline is provided on delivery of the car. If the car is not returned with a full tank, the renter will be charged for the difference.
DROP OFF CHARGES Europe
National Rentals—All countries, except the United States, operate a free one way rental system between most major cities within their boundaries. Inter-Country Rentals (Europe)—For rentals of two