weeks or longer, the European Key City Plan would apply with no drop-off charges assessed between certain cities within the same Zone. See page 6 for details.
Rentals between European cities in different zones will be subject to a surcharge of approximately 20 cents per kilometer, based on the one way distance between the two cities.
The United Kingdom and Ireland are not included in the one-way Inter-Country rental system.
One-way rentals are not available on Bargain Car rates.
United States
Free one-way rentals are available between Florida locations. Oneway rentals are permitted in other areas on Car Groups C and D on a limited free mileage basis as shown on page 28.
LONG TERM RENTALS
Lease rates are available in the United Kingdom, Germany and Italy for rentals of one month or longer. Pick-up and return cities must be within the same country and as listed in the Directory, (page 6.)
OFFICE HOURS
Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car offices are open during the normal business hours of the country in which they are located. Many city offices are closed on weekends starting at noon on Saturday until early Monday morning, on public holidays, and where customary, at midday. Airport pick-up is generally available at any time provided flight information is given.
SEA CROSSINGS
Cars rented in the United Kingdom and taken to Europe are subject to the following additional charges—50% on the basic rental cost, “Green Card” insurance charge of UKL 10, Royal Automobile Club membership of UKL 10 per week, documentation fee of UKL 2, shipment of car from United Kingdom to the European mainland with actual cost dependent upon size of the car (for example UKL 42 round trip for Ford Cortina) in addition to passenger fares. Three working days must be allowed for processing the necessary documentation. We suggest that you consider two separate rentals. The drop-off charge at Dover is UKL 10 and there is no delivery charge for pick up at Calais. You would then have the regulation left hand drive for Europe. Similar costs apply when taking a car from the United Kingdom to Ireland.
TAX ALLOWANCE
With proper documentation (completed Tax Exemption Form), partial waiving of the Government Tax on rentals in Germany, the Netherlands or Belgium is possible if the car is driven outside the country of rental during any part of the rental period. The Tax Exemption Form is available on request from the rental contractor in these countries. The date, kilometer reading and signature of the Border Guard/Customs Official must be shown on the Tax Exemption Form for each exit and entry of the country of rental. It is the renter’s responsibility to obtain and submit properly completed documentation at the termination of the rental in order to qualify for the exemption.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car will make every reasonable effort to supply vehicles in accordance with the client’s wishes, but reasonable substitutions may be made. Client’s rental contract is directly with the auto rental company and any claims must be made to the auto rental company. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car and Pan American World Airways, Inc., assume no responsibility for any events occurring after delivery of the vehicle. Price and specifications are subject to change without notice.