in summer. Ireland has several luxurious new hotels: t Intercontinental on the River Shannon over coking the cltv the Cork Intercontinental, 5 m&UK • ' r w tr v C
Dublin Intercontinental ( largest and most elegant pi Limerick Intercontinental in the Dublin Inter coniine reduced rates Dublin are the Royal H a favorite for over a cent about $12 during the peal Good, but less expensive.
Room rates in this type of Jho.wi u.::u
meric k v erick; ' ' . i t< bv t, the c; pita t i Cork a: ?>im	$9.65 doub
rom $9.3:0. . ie from $13.95; Amo: .g alb tine hotels in Gref ham	Shelbourne,
— Single i Aitr.s with bath me to September, and December. Clarence, Jury’s and Wicklow. iclude a hearty Irish breakfast.
Irish tourist offices can funds: complete lists of hotels and comfortable guest houses.
ARTS . . . TL Manorial Museum, on Kildare Street, with its collections of Iris* ; ohijuities from Stone. Age onward, is world famous. See the rn -turn’s unique hoard of Bronze Age gold ornaments and priceless fissures of Early Christian metalwork. Nearby, the National Gallery in Leinster Lawn, facing Mention Square, within easy reach of all parts of town, has as fine a collection of old masters as can 1 ' four ' any* here outside of London. Also fine works by Rembrandt, Mb !).- goof examples of Italian school, a wonderful Goya, “Spanish Woruan”; also Hogarth works and many famous Irish painters: Barry, ) Connor, Orpen, and two Hones, among others. National ? oCruit Gallery is under same roof. Open every day, free. 9 t Municipa; Gallery, of Modern Art, in a fine old Georgian mansion c , Fdtrnell Syt *re, is a must. Fine works of Continental, English and espe . tally I? iso rwitets, such as Hone, Orpen, G. F. Kelly, Shannon, Fisher, Veals and George Russell. Important works by the great Irish sculptor 'Andrew O’Connor. The Heraldic Museum in Dublin Castle where family trees are traced is the only one of its kind.
BANKS, . . American Express Company, 116 Grafton Street, Thomas Cook & Son, 118 Grafton Street; Bank of Ireland; the 1 .'¡vwaiaii Bank; the National Bank; Munster and Leinster Bank and Royal Bank are an ong the principal banks in Dublin. Ail have U.S. affiliations, and all have their head offices in College Green or Dame Str'eet, with branches in every town.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . St, Patrick’s Day, Whitsuntide, August Monday, Christmas Day and December 26. An Tostal is an extended period of activity in Ireland. Emphasis is on outdoor events in April, May, June, with indoor attractions,in the tails Early season events are the Westport. Sea Angling Festival in Co. Mayo, am. be 7estival of Traditional,Music -held -in a different >■ )v. •. each year. r,:r Dublin Horse Show ipis a major social spirting eVv.it. Dublin Theater Festival is in September.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . .	id me .an fob' co
cigarettes are available.'Of c « •• . «--hi r> ,e:. :ia!I> g.od, ’s Dublin). Good	:y :	,vp-.. ?iS.
CLIMATE. . : Orth«' 'rclar 1 .-dr. a* :.v irif c-: temheratme.