Gulf stream makes for mild weather, but with some rain. Best months to visit Ireland are April to October.
CLUBS. . . P.E.N. Club, Rotary Club, Lions Club, Variety Club, Skal Club, Publicity Club, lb yal Dublin Society, and sundry commercial clubs.
COMMON COURTES > AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. .. Same courtesies prevail as in America with regard to sending and acknowledgment of gifts, invitations, etc. Christmas is the biggest religious and civic festival of the year; on March 17 the Shamrock is worn and sent to friends in other countries to commemorate the feast of Ireland’s patron, Saint Patrick.
COMMUNICATIONS. . . Daytime phone calls to the States cost about £.1 per minute. Cablegrams are 1 shilling 5 pence (1/5) a word; urgent rates 2/10. Airmail postage to the U.S. is 1/3 for a 5-gram letter; 6d (nence) for a postcard; 8d for an airletter form. Local phone calls are 3d; 6d in some hotels.
CURRENCY. . . There are. 12 pence in a shilling, 20 shillings in a pound (£), worth $2.80 Dollars are usually acceptable, too.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED SPATES CITIZENS. . . An American needs his pass port, but no visa. You may bring in, duty free, 1,000 cigarettes, 20 cigars or 2Vi lbs. or tobacco, 1 pint of perfume, 1 quart of liquor, $56 worth of gifts. The only currency restriction is an export limit of £250 ($700) in sterling or Irish notes.
DRUGSTORES. . Sam-., as : t home, except no meals.
ELECTRIC CURRENTS. . . 220 volts, 50 cycle?.. A.c. Voltage of 110 is also available at first-class hotels.
FAUNA. .. Thoroughbred race horses aw stud horses and dogs are famous; also all types of sporting ard S -rr’V a limals indigenous to Western European countries.
FLORA. .. Plant life, v - nation, tr -., shrubs and flowers indigenous to the British Isles, rose, lily, Airyvantheinum, nasturtium, etc. Subtropical plants in the west.
FOOD;, . . Irish food is probably closest to American food ,to >e found anywhere outside the United States. Tire milk is fine, Up ot pasteurized everyv'her As in Argentina, roas? be- : and steakf. ao u-perb and istsxpen: ive. : ims and bacon, truth pnauy famous, and . ch cream, eggs.and at! kitx-s of vegetables ate readily available. Specialties include Dublin Bay p:*.?.wns, pheasant and grouse. Game and local cheese are a feature in . ’ ral t • vns.
.GAMBLING,,. . /yore than 100 race meets, many of 2- or 3 day duration, greyhound r ight r acing plentiful, Eamous Irish sweepstakes, -eU al im? > eacK yeat based on the Irish Derby and big English , ei-rss.; >‘ac<' j, p ri/. s ru- t ing to thousands of dollars.
L-^NGUAC-yE. . . Engl sh is Token a)J, oyer Ireland and accepted as the languag' of the cymtry 'n some cfitlying. rural and cosstal areas, however here are districts where the Irish language (Gaelic i is spoken.
LAUNDRY AND l. ■RY CLEAK^NG,.. Laundry service is i/A