reliable. Two-day service. One day on dry cleaning.
LIQUOR . . . There is excellent Irish whisky. Old-fashioned, pot distilled with a barley base, it is not ro smoky as Scotch. After dinner have an Irish Mist—Ireland’s legend i? v liqueur—or an Irish Coffee. Dublin’s famous Guinness stout, is da her, stronger than Continental beers. For residents, the liquor restrxc -is are slightly complicated, but foreign visitors registered at hotels may buy a drink at any reasonable time. Prices are dower than at home, about 35# a drink, including Scotch. Minimum legal age for drinkers is 17.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... Excellent.
MOTION PICTURES ... The Irish are among the greatest Hollywood fans in all Europe; cinemas v/ith good pictures abound. In Dublin the leading cinemas include the Savoy, Carlton, Capitol, Ambassador, Astor, Corinthian, Metropole and Adelphi. t MUSIC . . . Since the day in 1742 when Dubliners saw the first performance anywhere of Handel’s Messiah, the town has had a high standard of musical taste. There is the Trinity College Choral Society, ¿he Royal Irish Academy of Music, and the he is Ceoil (Music Festival which first introduced John McCormack), along with the Palestrina Choir in the Pro-Cathedral; and the Hibernian Catch Club, oldest male-voice choral society anywhere, founded in 1680. Concerts with famous conductors, opera and Radio Fireann Symphony Orchestra concerts during the winter in Dufci-n.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABAJ5E1S .. . Night clubs and cabarets are missing here. Ballrooms are found in the better hotels, but the Irish wit, gaiety and conversation am at their best in such world-famous pub. as Davy Byrnes, The Pearl and The Palace. Irish coffee (a wineglass. o'" b:ACi< uoffee with Irish liqueur whisky, plus fresh thick cream), marine n: o a* such places as Neary’s (off Grafton Street) a treat not easiiv . got en. For cocktail lounge atmosphere: The Shelbourne, Inc Butter -	' resham, i'.B.phm, Russell. Red Bank, Wick-
low, Jury’s and The Bailey
PHOTOGRAPH^ .. . Tourists can buy ^black-and-white still and •'de film in Dublin, Cork, Galway, etc.; also color film, cameras ..d rill photo equipr erit. Prices, particularly of cameras, are among •<«> lowest in Eu- pe.
<&EL<GK1M , , . Csdh Gc: the Pro-Cathef al, Marlborough Street; Catholic University, St. Stephen’s Greet; Augustirniin Church, Thomas Street; Carmelite Church, Whitest:ars Street; Dominican Church, Lower Dominick Street; Frati-risca« Church, Church Sheet; Jesuit Church, Upper Gardiner Street-. Pr. ssionist Church, Mount Argus; Church of Ireland; St. Patrick’s C- thefval; Chri. t Chur i Cathedral; Dublin University Chapel; St, And revs, St. Andrew Stheyp St. Georges, Temple .Sfrcet. There are see era! Pres :> terian chufchos, one being Abbey Chv oh in Parr; Pi Squtire, and several churches of Methodist and other Protestant d. icmir: tibrSy. gogne, Dolphin’s Barn, South Circular Road
RESTAUF kT . , . Among the. best Dublin restaurants are the S'artello Room atop the Dubh i Intercontinental. with a panoramic