view of the city; Moira, the Wicklow, the celebrated Jammet’s; try the Dolphin, Essex Street, for fine steaks and chops. Leading hotel restaurants, such as in the Dublin Intercontinental, Russell, Royal Hibernian, Gresham, and Shelbourne Grill, all have excellent service and food. So have the Red Bank, Bar nardos and Alfredo’s (dancing).
SHOPS AND STORES.. . Most of the city’s smart shops are in the Grafton Street area. For the ladies Sybil Connolly’s, Brown Thomas and Company, Clodagh’s, Irene Gilbert’s, Switzer’s, Neillie Mulcahy, Walpole’s. For the men, Kevin and Howlin for tweeds, Hortons and Kelly’s for tailoring. At Shannon, the customs-free airport, there is an international trading market with extremely low prices.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . More than 60 racecourses in the country. Phoenix Park, Curragh, national stud headquarters, Punchestown and Leopardstown are a few that are near Dublin. Greyhound racing 6 nights a week from March to October. Hockey, cricket, soccer, Gaelic football, hurling, bicycle racing, tennis matches, automobile racing, polo, all can be seen in and around Dublin. The Horse Show held in August draws visitors from all over the world. The All-Ireland Hurling and Football finals at Croke Park draw huge local crowds every September. Hurdle racing and steeplechases all winter. Big Irish Grand National in spring, usually Easter Monday, at nearby Fairyhouse course. Go out and see one of the famous Hunt Meets, such as the Meath or the South County Dublin Harriers, even if you don’t ride. There are boxing matches which have a big local following, stadium matches, basketball, billiard matches. The annual yacht regatta, at Dun Laoghaire,; is a great event. Girls hurling (Camogie, twelve to a side) play in Phoenix Park. Watch or join the players at old-fashioned bowls, at one of the many park greens.
SPORTS.. . There are more than twenty golf courses in the neighborhood of Dublin, some with world-wide reputations, other courses all over Ireland. Golf is almost as popular here as in Scotland. Among the best, adjacent to Dublin: Royal Dublin (Dolly-mount and Portmarnock, both 18-hole championship courses), seaside, very scenic; Woodbrook, another 18-hole course (seaside), licensed clubhouse, professional instructors available. Special Dublin trains stop right at the course. Some of the better-known inland courses are Castle, Cloiitarf, the Hermitage and Milltown.
As for fishing, a license for salmon or sea trout for single line and rod costs $2.80 for 7 days. No license for brown trout. The River Liffey has fair game fishing fight near Dublin, open season from January 1 to September 30. All over Ireland there is good sport; pike, browr. and sea trout and off-coast sea fishing—very good in August September, when mackerel fishing is a''id' at its best. Best se fisheries are along the west coast, Connemara, Donegal, and f:	.
Fishing is tree on he three lakes of Killarney, excellent for both :	n
and trout. There re 17'fishery districts in Eire. Licenses can be ?> tair.ed from the .irk in the; respective district, also from local hotel propriV. rs and d kle agc.i Consul 'fish Tourist Offices on fishing. Dun La ..¿hair?, ndar Du: • is hear- larters for Irish yachtsmen; the