Wicklow Regatta in August is the big annual event for Irish boating
THEATERS... Dublin is the home of the famous Abbey Players. There are the Gate, Gaiety and several smaller theaters.
TIME . . . When it is noon in New York, it’s 5 p.m. in Ireland.
TIPPING. . . Hotels and restaurants add a 10-15% service charge onto your bill. Tip luggage porters 2/-; 6d for washroom attendant or hat check; 1/- to 21- for parking lot or gas station attendant. Tip taxi drivers and barbers 10% of the bill; 15% for beauticians; 1/- for bellboy or doorman.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Train service good. Taxis cheap. Bus service everywhere is clean and cheap. Drive-yourself cars are available in larger towns.
WATER... Water is good to drink.
WHAT TO BUY.. . Hand-woven tweeds for both men and women, suits, topcoats, skirts, lace, linen, fine whisky, Peterson pipes, walking sticks. For antiques, fine old Irish Waterford glass, old silver, a great deal of which is superior to English of the same period. You may do better to bring your tweed goods home with you to be tailored. Good handmade shoes for men in Dublin. Wonderful fisherman sweaters from County Donegal and the Aran Islands.
WHAT TO WEAR... Medium-weight clothes and sports clothes are fine for daytime wear. Good walking shoes are essential. You really don’t need evening clothes. You’ll need a warm topcoat for winter touring, or buy one there. Spo tsmen will need golf and fishing togs. You’ll want a raincoat, but you can buy fine ones there.
WHERE TO GO SIGHTSEEING...
Dublin . . . Dublin, the natural headquarters for all visitors to Ireland, is a city of wide streets, lovely squares and parks, and wonderful examples of 18th century Georgian architecture. There are houses and buildings by Gandon, Cassels and lohnston, who were among the greatest of 18th century architects. Ceilings by Angelica Kauffman and mantlepieces by Bossi are famous features of some of these magnificent old buildings. See Mansion House (Dawson Street), the Mei ion Square home of Daniel O’Connell. Visit Ely Place Fitzwilliam Place and St. Stephen’s Green. Robert Emmet’s house is osi the western side and the church of the Catholic University erected by- Cardinal Newman faces the square too. Visit Grafton Street; Percy Bysshe Shelley lived at No. 17, Richard Brinsley Sheridan stayed at No. 79, and Tom Moore and the Duke of Wellington attended Samuel Whyte’s famous school. The provost’s house on the ground of Trinity College is impressive. O’Con-■ Street, the finest thoroughfare in DC.'in, runs north from the riv ;r. tne Nelson Pillar, the O’Connell Monument The General Post m,\ near the Pillar was headquarters of the Irish Volunteers during ' Easter Rising. Parnell Square ras the Municip .1 Gallery of Mod-r ¡.ft, the Gaelic League and the Rotunda. Here too, are the Gate I eater, the Rotunda Hospital. See the irihplace f George Bernard Shaw at 33 Synge Street, and a: of Jr; el. Joyce No. 41 Brighton Square. The Joyce Museum is . - the ano ; Marte'.o Tow« t Sardy-cove. Visit St. Patrick’s, St. A hs and . .. St Chu h Cathedral. The