latter dates back to Norman times; the former to 1213. The Guinness brewery, one of the world’s largest, is worth a visit. Take a look at Trinity College, the Custom House, the National Library. Spend some time in Phoenix Park, one of the finest in the world, containing a race course, zoo, sports grounds, the official residence of the President, the American Embassy, flower gardens, a lake and the tallest obelisk in the world—the Wellington Monument.
Seven miles south of the city is Dun Laoghaire, with a fine harbor and steamer service to Holyhead. It is a marine playground for all of Dublin, with good swimming. The old village of Dalkey, a mile or so beyond, affords a magnificent view of the bay. Bray, 4 miles farther south, is a seaside resort with a promenade and all other resort features. To the north there are picturesque seaside villages of Howth, Skerries, Rush, Lusk, and others.
Basic Side Tours ... There are daily coach tours to other interesting and picturesque spots within a 30-mile radius of Dublin. Fro' Shannon airport there are luxury coach tours of 2 to 6 days to Killan. and/or Connemara. Transatlantic passengers can now take a 24-hour “Medieval Tour” from Shannon Airport for the all-inclusive cost of only $20. The tour gives you a 60-mile ride through cozy villages and emerald-green countryside, tea before a turf fire in a thatched cottage, a medieval banquet (complete with songs by Irish minstrels) in Bun-ratty Castle, overnight accommodations at the Airport Motel, and breakfast. And you still have time for a glorious shopping binge in the Airport Duty Free Shop before flying out of the country. You can arrange 6- and 9- and 12-day tours out of Dublin before you leave home. Or make your arrangements in Dublin.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... The Irish Tourist Association has offices at 33 E. 50 St. in New York, and in Chicago, San Francisco and Montreal. In Dublin there is a Tourist Information Bureau at 14 Upper O’Connell Street. Information also at Pan American’s office, 35 Westmoreland Street (Tel. 79091).
WHEREVEF 3U GO
YOU NEED ¿EW HORIZONS
T';iT reprint cove in abridg' d form, only one '■ j9cc	ntries i	ribed in itail in Pan Ameri-
c - s b	t-selh	NEW HORIZONS WORLD
Ci, DE.	? 640	e book «.¡so includes useful
travel i	, wea	> charts, photographs and
maps. P- k up yc copy at my Pan Am office or travel agent, o /rite Par American, Dept. R, P.O. Box >AA, Jai ica, N.	11430. Or $2 in
U. S. cV> ■ ncy or equivalent'
©1965 Par. .irierican /-»o'rld Airvats Inc.
Hioper and i¥-w Horizo-«; T.M. '..ej;. U. S. P.,.. 0,