
by Flying Clipper!
Enjoy the luxury of flying . . . and spend the time you save seeing Japan. Aboard a fast, dependable Pan American Clipper, Japan is short hours away from most Pacific points and conveniently reached from any place in the world . . . that’s because Tokyo is a main stop on Pan American’s vast Round-the-world routes.
Choose Between Two Great Services
President service—Pan Am’s great luxury service, features the fun and relaxation of the club lounge . . . superb chef-planned meals served with complimentary cocktails . . . bar service . . . the stretch out comfort of big, foam-soft reclining seats. Wide, roomy berths are available at a surcharge. Friendly Clipper service is yours in the air and on the ground. Pan Am’s tourist-fare Rainbow service offers comfortable reclining seats . . . courteous cabin attendants . . . delicious complimentary meals . . . bar service . . . you’ll save time and money, still fly the world’s most experienced airline.
TOURS INSIDE
1957 EDITION
Japan
so near by
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
«Aff»	'Aff «¿¿» »If» «ì/» «if» «ijy5* «A£i «if» «Mo «i£» «if»
wwwww w w w ww w www ww w w
NIKKO
LAKE CHUZENJI
TOKYO
t%T AMERICAIV
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
1172-1-57 Clipper, Trade Mark, Pan American World Airways, Inc. litho. in u.s a
For information and reservations, call your Travel Agent or Pan American. Don’t forget, alternate routings, side trips and stopovers are easily arranged to double your travel pleasure.
KYOTO
NARA
Fly by Clipper to Japan... it takes less time than you may think ... Pan American Clippers bring the wonders of Japan to anyone who has a week or more set aside for a trip.
More time for sightseeing fun
A mystic blend of the very old and the very new. That’s Japan ... land of magnificent arts, natural beauties, color and charm. Visit strangely beautiful shrines and moated castles resplendent in their storybook settings. You’ll enjoy the gaiety of colorful festivals ... the formality of the classic theater...sights beheld nowhere else in the world. Yes, you’ll be charmed as never before by the quaint customs of the Japanese people and the perfection of their arts.
All this travel magic awaits when you step from your Flying Clipper at fabulous Tokyo where these exciting tours begin.
Tori I at ancient itsukushima Shrine on Miyajima Island
Tours are carefree . . . easy to arrange—Everything is handled for you. And one price covers all your necessary expenses in Japan—even tips. Just take your pick from the all-expense itineraries on the next pages. Each sight-seeing tour is carefully chosen— even the short 3-day tour is a memorable experience.
More time for individual sightseeing, if you prefer—
Extended visits, either before or after the conducted tours, are easily arranged. A total stay in Japan of up to 60 days is allowed for tourists. This gives you time to enjoy other sight-seeing trips and short excursions. Or you can explore on your own ... in great cities like Tokyo and Osaka, in glamorous Kyoto and magnificent resorts like Nikko and Hakone.
the Flying Clipper way