—Fuel costs are not likely to ever decrease to the level once enjoyed and fuel loaded abroad will never enjoy the protection of U.S. regulation and price control.
—Even the most extensive, equitable and statesmanlike U. S. legislation and administration will not alter the fact of understandable foreign protectionism—whatever its choice label— of those airlines which fly its flag and flaunt its prestige.
—And, most of all, we had to recognize our vulnerable and precarious financial condition.
PAN AM’S NEW WORLD —Redesigning a Different Kind of Airline for a Different Kind of Air World
Pan Am’s restructuring has had a design and purpose based upon the premises it had realistically to accept. The Company decided in 1974 to accelerate the effort, initiated in 1970, to change its route system by suspensions, route swaps and sales and capacity agreements, and to press vigorously its applications for new and relevant route authority.
Suspensions
Before 1973, service was suspended at loss points which were then deemed expendable: Baghdad, Calcutta, Darwin, Hilo, Rangoon and Wake Island.
In the last six months of 1973, service was suspended at additional unprofitable points: Antigua, Belgrade, Belem,
Bergen, Bucharest, Glasgow (passenger only), Entebbe, Freeport, Helsinki, Keflavik, Oslo, Paramaribo, San Pedro Sula, Santa Maria and Stockholm. (Service to Belgrade and Bucharest will be reinstituted in late May).
Suspension was sought in February, 1975 (and approved in April) when Pan Am applied to the CAB for all service to Puerto Rico (except from Miami to San Juan, Caracas to San Juan and from San Juan to the Iberian Peninsula and Rome), as well as its service to the Virgin Islands and certain other unprofitable Caribbean operations. Such suspension authority was granted from April 9, 1975 to December 15, 1976. Although these services until recently provided a cash contribution to overhead, their economics have continued to deteriorate due to increasing costs and noncompensatory fare levels imposed by the CAB. Additionally,
9