Route Rationalization A Last Step in Pan Am’s Route Restructuring-----Why and How
To Pan Am Employees, the Travel and Shipping Trade, and the Press:
On February 20, 1975, Pan Am filed to suspend, from April 9,
1975 until December 15, 1976, the bulk of its operations in the Caribbean. The Civil Aeronautics Board approved these suspensions on April 3, 1975.
The suspensions leave Pan Am only with service in the Caribbean from New York to Jamaica, the Bahamas and Trinidad; and with service from Miami to San Juan, Haiti and Santo Domingo; and from San Juan to Caracas. Our route exchange with American provides that we will transfer to them our routes from New York and Boston to Bermuda and from New York to Santo Domingo and Barbados for their routes to the South Pacific and Australia and some U.S. points to Hawaii.
These suspensions, along with others which have been announced, as well as the route sales and exchanges—constitute the last major restructuring of Pan Am’s system.
The core of Pan Am personnel, particularly those who have been with the company for some time, very probably find it difficult to understand why we have taken these actions. It is painful since so many of the company’s “pioneer” routes are being suspended or exchanged. Ireland and Lisbon, Alaska, Puerto Rico and Bermuda have been a part of Pan Am’s early history. It is difficult to accept the fact that they now appear to play so minor a part in the company’s future plans.
A basic premise of this restructuring program is to create a global airline more suitably attuned to 1975/1976, consistent with the competitive air world in which we live. For the nature of the air transport systems of today are substantially different from those of the years when Pan Am either flew or acquired routes which may no longer be suitable for a viable operation. Also, since 1950, Pan Am has received no significant new authority from the government. During that period our domestic trunk airlines, virtually without exception, have secured rights for international operation which have changed Pan Am’s competitive posture. And, even more important, the airlines of the world have moved into the international picture on a scale never predicted.
1