The First Decade of Jets (1958-1967)
October, 1958, marked the advent of the subsonic jets and 1959 was the first year of their effective use. Operating almost at the speed of sound, larger in capacity than the conventional piston aircraft and quieter than the transitional turbo-prop aircraft, their operating economies and their attractiveness boosted the public demand for air travel.
Competition, authorized by the CAB, proliferated. At home, practically every airline wanted to fly every route without regard to economic principles. The CAB granted many of these applications. Internationally, however, an increasing number of foreign airlines were authorized to fly to the U. S.
Disturbing Trends (1968-1974)
By the mid-sixties, many of the U. S. airlines had become somewhat over-optimistic in their forecasts. Many applied for more and more competitive routes, both domestically and internationally. Some disturbing trends already were becoming evident.
The graph of traffic increases began to flatten out. Costs increased sharply and disproportionately. Growing inflation affected everything the airlines bought or used but was not reflected in compensating rises in airline fares. Promotional fares depressed yields.
The gap between revenues and expenses began to narrow. Profits fell. Rates of return became unstable and disappointing.
The effects of excessive and unsound competition began to assert themselves.
It should have been clear to both management and government that trouble lay ahead. All concerned should have foreseen that demands for further unsound competition would ultimately be destructive.
Nonetheless, despite the disturbing trends which were evident beginning in late 1967 and early 1968, an abundance of additional scheduled domestic and international competition was authorized. And the supplementals, U. S. and foreign, were encouraged to make further inroads on the earning potentials of the scheduled carriers.
And then, in late 1973, fuel became scarce and then exploded in cost.
4