Pan Am’s Unique Problems
Pan Am’s problems are unique, for Pan Am is unlike any other U. S. airline.
Pan American’s greatest special problem, however, is the long history of regulatory actions which, bit by bit, sapped away at the strength of a strong carrier. There was no deliberate government policy to cripple us. Rather, on the basis of uncoordinated case-by-case review, it was decided in each case that that particular straw would not break our back.
Pan Am’s problems cannot be adequately comprehended without relating them to a broad view of the entire airline industry, both domestic and international, and to the regulatory steps which in the past preceded the present critical situation.
Pan Am had initiated Caribbean services in 1928, Latin America service in 1930, inaugurated transpacific services in 1935 before the Civil Aeronautics Act was passed in 1938, and was certificated across the Atlantic in 1939.
World War II, at one and the same time, immobilized air commerce yet ultimately became its greatest stimulant. At the close of the war, the transatlantic market appeared the most immediately promising. In 1945, three basic routes to Europe were designed: across the Atlantic to Scandinavia and Russia; to India via the United Kingdom, Germany, east Europe and Turkey; and a southern route by way of France, Iberia and the Mediterranean basin to southern India. In 1950, Pan Am’s acquisition of American Overseas Airlines’ northern route precipitated a re-design of the competitive map which resulted in U. S. competition in many foreign markets for the first time.
This looked good and sound because the tired world had not yet developed, with U. S. assistance, its economic muscle.
The illusion of healthy and necessary U. S. competition provoked, over the next two decades, the grant of competition among U. S. airlines in almost every major international market.
Over the years, since 1950, most of the airline components of the Domestic Trunkline System have been granted international or overseas routes regardless of the growth and strength and government nourishment of the scores of Foreign-Flag competitors.
Every major “domestic” U. S. air carrier has been given the right to expand into international or overseas services while Pan Am still is not permitted to fly U. S. mainland routes in
5