With American
In December, 1973 American Airlines agreed to exchange routes from the U. S. mainland (New York/Newark, Washington, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth) to Honolulu and the South Pacific for Pan Am’s rights between New York/Boston and Bermuda, New York and Barbados and New York and Santo Domingo. Pending final action on the agreement by the CAB and the President, American suspended its service from Hawaii to the South Pacific. The administrative law judge recommended that the agreement be disapproved as detrimental to Pan Am, a conclusion with which the company does not agree. The recommended decision is being reviewed for final decision.
With Western
In October, 1974 Pan Am agreed with Western Airlines to sell its Pacific Northwest-Alaska route, together with one Boeing 707 aircraft, for a total price of $6,750,000, including $400,000 for the route authority. Western also undertook other obligations with respect to Pan Am’s employees in Fairbanks. In February, 1975 the administrative law judge recommended approval of the agreement and it is now awaiting final decision.
Capacity Agreements
Pan Am was a party to CAB-approved capacity limitation agreements in several markets in 1974—in Europe to the United Kingdom and Italy and to Venezuela. Similar agreements have also been concluded for effectiveness during all or portions of 1975. Thus far, however, efforts have failed to reach satisfactory agreement with several European airlines (KLM, Sabena, and SAS) which have operated excessive capacity. Pan Am will continue to urge the U. S. Government to carry through its announced intention to take necessary corrective governmental action.
New Route Opportunities
In September, 1973 the CAB instituted the Transatlantic Route Proceeding, a large and complex case which could have major impact on Pan Am’s route structure. In addition to reviewing all existing temporary transatlantic operating authorities, the CAB is considering the addition of new transatlantic services at a number of United States cities. Hearings were completed
11