equitable competition and is rigidly confined by U. S. regulation basically to international and overseas routes.
Pan Am is subject to more competition and to more restrictions than any other airline in the world.
Pan Am is the only U. S. major airline without a mainland domestic network. As if it were a foreign airline, Pan Am is prohibited from passenger-cargo service between cities within the continental United States. Pan Am’s Foreign-Flag competitors are not so restricted in their own countries.
Pan Am’s overseas routes have continuously been diluted through the years by awards to its U. S. competitors without compensatory authorizations to balance and to maintain its competitive position.
Gradually over the years, Pan Am has been subjected to dilution of its profit potential by more unsound and excessive competition—both U. S. and foreign, scheduled and charter— than any other airline. This has seriously affected its profitability.
Competing with Pan Am in the world’s travel markets are:
49 airlines across the Atlantic; 27 to Caribbean points; 31 to cities in South America; 21 U. S. carriers to Hawaii; 12 to the Orient and 9 to the South Pacific.
Another destructive element compounded the problem: the authorization and growth of the large supplemental airlines.
Pan Am’s profit rose to record levels in 1966 and then started to tumble—weakened, at the outset, by excessive competition which boosted traffic at increasingly non-compensating price levels.
From 1969 through 1974, Pan Am lost $256 million.
And then came the fuel crisis.
Another Crisis—Fuel
From 1966’s peak of profitability—at $86 million non-inflated dollars—to six years of mounting losses, Pan Am’s trouble has been well-recorded. But there was near-success in 1973, but not quite enough of a cushion of a comfortable, healthy competitive flavor to compensate for increased fuel prices further exacerbated by the impact of a combined inflation/recession in the predominantly vacation/pleasure market Pan Am serves.
We had felt in 1973 that we would enjoy our first profitable years since 1968. But, first the scarcity of fuel, then its escalated price shattered that hope. Even so, in 1973 we recorded an
6