in 1974 and in January, 1975 the administrative law judge issued his recommended decision. Among other things he recommended the denial of the applications of all carriers not already providing transatlantic service; the renewal of all temporary certificates for a five-year period, and the authorization of service to a number of additional U. S. cities by Pan Am and TWA. Pan Am was recommended to serve Atlanta, Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston, for which it had pressed vigorously, as well as for expanded transatlantic authority from San Juan.
Final decision by the Board and the President is anticipated later this year.
A CAB administrative law judge recommended in 1973 that Pan Am be certificated to serve Miami-Los Angeles, a route currently served nonstop by only National Airlines. The judge saw merit in the worldwide service that Pan Am could provide for passengers and cargo via the southern transcontinental route and the benefits which would accrue to the Company from its first mainland domestic route. Submission to the CAB for final decision was delayed by an investigation with respect to the environmental impact of the projected additional service. It has now been determined that there would not be adverse impact and the case has just been submitted to the CAB for final decision.
An administrative law judge had also recommended Pan Am for a route linking Saipan and Japan. Additional hearings were held in 1974, as a result of which another administrative law judge found that there was no reason to change that recommendation. This application is currently awaiting final decision by the CAB and the President.
Because of an objection by Braniff Airways to a CAB-proposed extension of Pan Am’s New York-Rio de Janeiro route to Johannesburg, hearings were held in 1974 on the applications of both companies. The administrative law judge has recommended the award of that route to Pan Am.
These Are The Last Steps In Pan Am’s Route Restructuring.
This Is Pan Am’s New World.
May 5, 1975
12