Pan Am had tried, unsuccessfully, to better its competitive situation. But for some small concessions, Pan Am’s routes have remained the same while both domestic trunklines and foreign-flag carriers enhanced their holdings.
Although the government expressed a willingness to take action to improve the environment in the international field, the actions proposed were so long-term that it was obvious to us that if we were to return to viability, Pan Am would have to do so through its own efforts. Our weakened financial condition, worse in 1974 than ever before, accelerated the need for some unilateral action. We have taken it. We want you to know why. And we want you to understand why we feel these actions will strengthen Pan Am.
Pan Am — A Grave Crisis
In May of 1974, at Pan Am’s 46th Annual Meeting, the late General Charles Lindbergh said with extraordinary foresight.
“We are facing, I think, the most critical situation that our western civilization has ever faced. We are feeling the impact of technology in many different ways, both constructive and destructive.
“Company policy, obviously, is very closely related to the attention and the assistance we now can obtain from government.
“I cannot—I do not have the wisdom—to give detailed suggestions beyond those that are already under way; beyond those that you saw portrayed in this . . . meeting. It is going to take all the ability that we have in Pan American and in government— even government extending beyond the United States—to solve the problems that we are now facing.”
General Lindbergh sounded a challenge to Pan Am’s management to exercise its ingenuity and, with government understanding and cooperation, to reshape the country’s oldest international airline to the realities of the last quarter of the 20th century.
A key concept in General Lindbergh’s observation was the “constructive and destructive” “impact of technology.” It was triggered by World War II. It accelerated at the War’s end. It raced far ahead of the economics of all business and particularly the business of air transportation.
Before World War II, commercial aviation was an infant. Its promise was realized in the successful uses to which airplanes were put in moving people and things in the United States and all over the world. In the 30 years, since the War’s end—and
2