Pan Am’s competitors have substantial feed from their domestic networks and an ability to conduct through flights and nonstop services from interior U. S. cities which constitute a further diversionary drain on Pan Am traffic.
The Company also determined that whereas continuation of its New York-Fairbanks-Tokyo service would result in a loss, it could operate profitably from New York to Tokyo via San Francisco even though it does not have domestic traffic rights. The CAB disapproved the suspension and we have appealed.
This suspension, along with the sale of the Pacific Northwest-Alaska route to Western, will terminate all service to Fairbanks.
Route Swaps and Sales With TWA
The initial route swap with TWA was approved by the CAB in early 1974. This provided for Pan Am suspension of service to Ireland and TWA suspension of Detroit-London and East Africa service, as well as agreement not to press efforts to serve South Africa.
In December, 1974 Pan Am and TWA entered into and submitted to the CAB for approval another agreement calling for certain suspensions and other changes in route authority for a period of five years. The agreement called for Pan Am to suspend services between the United States and France,
Austria, Portugal, Spain and Casablanca, except for its Miami-San Juan-Lisbon-Madrid-Rome route. In addition, Pan Am was to refrain from exercising its right to provide through-plane service between Chicago, Los Angeles and Philadelphia, on the one hand, and London on the other. TWA, in turn, agreed to suspend its transatlantic service between the U. S. and Germany and to India/Sri Lanka and points east, to suspend its entire service to Hawaii and across the Pacific, and to refrain from exercising its right to provide through-plane service between Washington and London. On January 30, 1975, the CAB approved the agreement and entered appropriate implementing orders for a period of two years or until 90 days after final CAB decision in the pending Transatlantic Route Proceeding. The CAB also retained jurisdiction to modify its approval. Pan Am and TWA subsequently entered into a further agreement to make appropriate applications for extension of the CAB approval for the full five-year period. The various suspensions and route changes were implemented starting in March, 1975.
10