restructure—particularly In view of some problems of world economy which were expected to accelerate in 1975.
Pan Am’s World had been squeezed by regulation and reality. Pan Am suffered a route status quo from the approval in 1950 of its acquisition of American Overseas Airlines which resulted, for the first time, in head-to-head U. S. competition in Europe. Reality produced strong foreign competition all over the world, challenging U. S. domestic competition with international and overseas routes.
The fundamentals of Pan Am’s approach to its global network had to be reexamined and rationalized. It just was not going to be good enough to be big. It just was not going to continue to be acceptable to operate routes just because they were there.
There wasn’t time to wait any longer. Pan Am had to unilaterally trim its system. Pan Am had to accelerate its effort to survey its world. In fact, Pan Am had to create a New World from the nucleus of its old.
We had to face certain facts with a realism that they were there; they were unassailable; they weren’t going to disappear; they were, to some extent, uncontrollable. We had to adjust to live with them.
—There has been too much airline competition and too much airline capacity in every sector in which Pan Am operates.
—This competition and the capacity is both scheduled and charter.
—Whatever the reasons, the nature of Pan Am’s vacation/ pleasure market is changing to the lower level fares to which it has been exposed and to group/excursion/package enticements.
—Except through merger with a fundamentally U. S. domestic airline, Pan Am is unlikely to be granted a substantial domestic system even though it may be awarded additional domestic gateways and fill-up rights.
—The unusual costs, associated with international operations, such as user charges, low frequency, higher commissions and outrageous landing fees may be mitigated but they will not disappear.
—Revenue increases will result from low yield traffic—
a circumstance of competing against increasingly unrestricted charters and Foreign Flag airlines with less interest in air traffic than tourism—and even lower yield, although extensive, cargo operation.
8