as a measure of the advance of civilization that time is short— there has been undreamed-of progress in the technical elements of air transportation. This was made possible, essentially, by the technical progress represented by the increased size and speed of airplanes, the traffic systems and ground facilities developed to accommodate them, an explosive economy and a shrunken world which experienced an unprecedented period of comparative peace.
Airline management decisions are not unilateral. Two basic factors are controlling—government and management. Airline transportation everywhere is either government owned or government regulated. In the United States it is government regulated. Government regulatory policies have determined, in some measure, the present state of Pan Am’s problems.
Let’s briefly examine the elements that cumulatively created the climate for Pan Am’s crisis.
World War II and Air Transportation (1941-1945)
Although relatively an infant industry, U. S. commercial air transportation was enlisted by the government to provide an experienced organization for airlift military requirements imposed by World War II. Except for minimal domestic commercial passenger services, virtually all of the U. S. civil airlift and its necessary trained personnel were called on to fulfill the wartime mission of the Air Transport Command and the Naval Air Transport Service in support activities for the U. S. and Allied armed services throughout the world. National defense needs were stressed when the Congress created the airline industry. The U. S. scheduled airlines fulfilled these needs during World War II.
Post-War Air Transportation (1946-1958)
From 1946 through 1958, development of the U. S. route systems, which had of necessity been frozen during the war years, was sharply expanded by the Civil Aeronautics Board. Regional carriers became trunks; feeder airlines were created and grew into regional carriers; more U. S. competition was authorized on international routes; foreign flag airlines, virtually non-existent insofar as service to and from the U. S. was concerned, were widely granted operating rights into the United States by the CAB and Presidential order, and began to develop into strong and effective competitors.