14th day —All day by steamer on the most picturesque portion of THE RHINE, viewing the Mouse Tower, Rheinstein Castle, Lorelei Rock, Fortress of Ehrenbreitstein, old watch towers of Weisenthurm and Andernach, ruins of Drachenfels Castle, Siebengebirge Mountains, and the University City of Bonn, to Cologne.
15th day—By rail to Amsterdam.
16th day to 17th day—In AMSTERDAM, largest city in the Netherlands, intersected by many canals. Half day motor drive. Of interest are Rijks Museum with one of the world's greatest collections of Old Masters, diamond cutting factories, Royal Palace with magnificent Reception Hall, Nieuwe Church with beautifully carved pulpit, Oude Church with fine stained glass, Synagogue of Portuguese Jews built in imitation of Solomon’s Temple and the Municipal Museum of modern paintings. Half day excursion to the quaint, medieval Dutch village of VOLENDAM, to picturesque ISLE OF MARKEN, famed for the strange customs and fantastic costumes of the natives, and to EDAM to visit one of the famous cheese factories.
18th day—By rail to THE HAGUE, one of the most handsome cities in Europe. Half day motor drive. Interesting sights are Mauritshuis with famous Dutch paintings, Binnenhof with Hall of Knights, Steengracht Gallery with modern paintings, Royal Library with collection of coins and gems, picturesque City Hall, Groote Church with fine view from the tower, Mesdag Museum with modern paintings, House in the Woods, where the first peace conference met in 1899, Palace of Peace, magnificent gift of Andrew Carnegie, and Scheveningen seaside resort, outside the city.
19th day—By rail and steamer to London.
20th day to 23rd day—In LONDON. Sightseeing tour of the city, visiting main points of interest. Half day motor drive to WINDSOR. Full day excursion by motor to OXFORD and the SHAKESPEARE COUNTRY.
24th day—Depart London by plane.
25th day—Arrive New York or Boston.
Price: $398.00 for those taking the Pilgrimage. $890.00 taken independently and inclusive transatlantic plane fare from Boston or New York in low season. $960.00 in high season. All fares are based on tariffs and foreign exchange rates in effect February 1st., 1954 and are subject to any subsequent tariff change.
From Rome a large variety of extension tours can be arranged at moderate rates to include additional famous cities in Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, Belgium, England, Scotland, Ireland and Scandinavia. Itineraries and prices quoted upon request.



illations
Included in rate'. Transportation over the Atlantic via Pan American World Airways Clipper Tourist Service. Free two piece luggage allowance not over 44 pounds; land travel by rail second class, third in Great Britain where second class does not exist, and/or motorcoach. Transfer between terminals and hotel and vice-versa. Hotel accommodation with one person sharing twin bed room wi'.h bath, where ava'lable, in good selected hotels. Meals include only continental breakfast for the Religious Shrine and Artistic City Tour and continental breakfast and one meal (choice of dinner or lunch) for the extension. Excursion and sightseeing tour as mentioned in the itineraries. Taxes and gratuities to the hotel staff.
Not Included in the Price: Wines, mineral waters, after dinner coffee, personal tips, laundry, passport expense and items of a purely personal nature.
Conditions'. The Airlines concerned are not to be held responsible for any act, omission or event, during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyance. The passage contract in use by the Airlines concerned, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the Airlines and the purchaser of these tour and/or passenger.
Responsibility. The Trans-Oceanic Tourist Travel Agency, 1 North Square, Boston, Mass, and or its agents act only as agent for the passenger in regard to travel and accommodations, by any means, and assume no liability for injury, damage, loss, accident, delay or irregularity which may be occasioned. The Travel Agency can accept no responsibility for losses or additional expenses due to delay or changes in schedules. All such losses or expenses will have to be borne by the passenger as tour rates provide for arrangements only for the time states. The right is reserved to decline to accept or retain any person as a member of any tour or to cancel any tour if circumstances demand it. Baggage is at owner’s own risk. Baggage insurance is recommended.
For Information and Reservations See
3M—2-54

LISIEUX

V
PARIS
LOURDES

I
mm
MICE

MONTECARLO
FLORENCE
ASSISI

ROME
Pan American:



Airways
cV/f’ System of f/e(^F/yiny Cf/ppers
/io j