TOUR OF EUROPE
YOUR CHAPLAIN
Rev. Father Achilles N. Caporaii SM., Ph.D., Lt.D., D.D., scholar, writer, linguist, philosopher, journalist, because of his great learning and genial character has in previous years aroused the greatest enthusiasm among the pilgrims that he has accompanied to the most famous shrines of Europe.
Father Caporaii has kindly consented to be again the chaplain of this pilgrimage and to lend his cooperation and experience in making this tour of the first Marian year a source of spiritual emotions and intellectual delight.
CLIQUA
July 10 Leave New York or Boston by Pan American Airways Clipper Tourist Rainbow service.
July 11 Arrive Paris.
July 12 In Paris, City of Light, great cosmopolitan center for beauty and art, fashion and gayety. Sightseeing tour of the city by motorcoach: visiting Madeleine Church, Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, Napoleon’s Tomb and the Eiffel Tower.
July 13 Sightseeing tour of the city by motorcoach: visiting the Louvre Museum, Notre Dame Cathedral, the Grand Boulevards, and Sacred Heart Church.
July 14 At leisure.
July 15 Full day excursion to Lisieux. Lisieux is situated in the beautiful valley at the confluence of Touques and Orbiquet Rivers, and has the famous shrine of St. Theresa. Leave by night train (sleeper) for Lourdes.
July 16 Lourdes, picturesquely situated on Gave du Pau with fine view of the Pyrenees. It is one of the greatest shrines in Europe, visited yearly by thousands of tourists.
pine and sdrtiâtic	ZJour
PATT-15
July 18 Leave by train to Nice. Nice is a famous resort on the French Riviera.
July 19 Excursion to Monte Carlo by motorcoach: Drive via the Grand Corniche to Mentone. Visit along the St. Louis Bridge waterfront, the Casino and the gardens. Continue to Monte Carlo. Visit the famous gambling Casino. Return via Monaco, visiting aquarium and exotic gardens.
July 20 At leisure.
July 21 Leave by train to Florence. Florence is Italy’s great city of art.
July 22 Sightseeing tour of the city by motorcoach: visiting Medici Chapels, St. John’s Baptistry, Michelangelo Square, Pitti Palace and Art Gallery.
July 23 At leisure.
July 24 Leave by De Luxe motorcoach via the Italian Hill Towns of Perugia with hoary walls and towers and Assisi with its double Church of St. Francis, to Rome.
July 25 Sightseeing tour of the Eternal City, visiting the Vatican Museums and Galleries, Sistine Chapel, Trevi Fountain and Pantheon, the Basilicas of St. Maty Major and St. John Lateran, the Old Appian Way and the Catacombs.
July 26 Audience with the Holy Father.
End of the Tour
Return date from Rome optional with stop-over permissible. Tour price includes air ticket Rome to Boston or
New York.
PATT-16
1st day—-ROME — Deluxe motor coach sightseeing tour visiting Colosseum, Basilica of S. Paul outside the Walls, the Palatine Hill, the Imperial Flora, Roman Forum and other points of interest.
2nd day—-3rd day—NAPLES — Two day excursion by deluxe motorcoach to Pompei, visit to the excavations, thence via Cava, Vieltri Majori, Minori to Amalfi. Visit to the Cathedral, luncheon. Proceed via Positano and Meta to Sorrento, return to Naples via Castellamare. In the second day leave Naples by steamer and arrive in Capri, Marina Grande, visit to the blue Grotto by boat, return to Marina Grande. By funicular to Capri where lunch will be served. Then back to Capri to see Augustus’ Gardens and other points of interest. Funicular to Marina Grande and return to Naples by steamer.
4th day to 6th day—VENICE — "The City in the Sea” completely untouched by the last war. Morning sightseeing tour on foot with guide, afternoon by gondola. Of interest are St. Mark’s Cathedral with Constantine’s famous Bronze Horses and beautiful mosaics. Campanile with fine bronze doors, Ducal Palace with the Bridge of Sighs and Venetian Art, the Grand Canal lined with old palaces, Rialto Bridge, House of Gold with modern art and the Arsenal with its Greek Lions. Thirty minutes by steamer from Venice is the famous Lido beach
7th day—Depart Venice in the morning by motor to PADUA, charming medieval city with old university, cathedral and beautiful 12th century baptistery, VICENZA with its famous clock tower and basilica, VERONA, ancient Roman city with interesting old palaces and monuments, and drive along Lake Garda. Arrive Milan late afternoon.
8th day—In MILAN, one of the largest and wealthiest cities in Italy. Half day motor drive. Of interest are the famous Cathedral, second largest in the world, Galleria Vittorio Emanuele with statuary and brilliant shops, and Church of Santa Maria delle Grazie with Leonardo da Vinci’s “Last Supper”.
9th day—By rail to Lucerne.
10th day—-At LUCERNE, most famous of Swiss resorts, a city partly enclosed by walls with nine picturesque watch towers, and beautifully situated on the shores of the Lake of Lucerne. Half day motor drive. Of interest' are the “Lion Monument” by Thorvaldsen, the 14th century Chapel Bridge and 15th century Dance of Death Bridge, both adorned with paintings, medieval city walls, 16th century Town Hall and splendid views of city, lake and mountains from nearby hills.
11th day—GRAND ALPINE motor drive along Lake Lucerne to Queen Astrid’s Chapel, over Grimsel and Furka Passes with views of Rhone Glacier.
12th day—By rail to Heidelberg. Half day motor drive.
July 17 At leisure.
Price $815.00
13th day—By rail to WIESBADEN, a pleasant watering place with 27 mineral springs known since Roman times.