-
U
*
RECEIVED ! APR 22 W5 1 JOHM C. LESLIE
AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION OF AMVRitrA--
1107 SIXTEENTH STREET, N. W. • WASHINGTON 6, D. C. • EXECUTIVE 3-6161
MILTON W. ARNOLD, Vice President Operations and Engineering Department
Mr, John C. Leslie Vice President-Administration Pan American World Airways, Inc, 135 East i*2nd Street New York 17, New York
Dear Johns
At your suggestion, Willis Player passed on to me a copy of an inter-office memorandum dated April 1, 1955 to the Executive Vice Presidents of Pan American’s three divisions on the subject of Facts and Figures - Pan American World Airways*
I was very much impressed with the facts and the method of presentation incorporated in the memorandum* A great amount of the history and general facts were known to me but the method of presentation is most impressive in that it is simple and direct* In my opinion, the report proves conclusively, as many of us have known, that Pan American World Airways has returned to the nation, from an economic and defense standpoint, the government’s assistance*
For whatever it is worth, my personal opinion is that it would be of great benefit if Pan American would attenpt to circulate these facts in Congress, throughout the military services and in the public and aviation press as extensively as possible*	"
Unfortunately, the facts in regard to Pan American have been distorted in the minds of the public more so than have the facts of any other corporation in the field of transportation* I believe this is a great injustice. To the contrary, there is very little distortion of the position of our merchant marine, ify only explanation is that the distortion is primarily attributed to various factions in aviation. Consequently, I think that anything that can be done to bring this to the public’s attention would be a service not only to Pan American but to aviation as a whole*
Thanks again for your thoughtfulness in suggesting to Willis that I look over the memorandum* Kindest regards,
Sincerely,
Vice President-Operations & Engineering
TRAVEL, MAIL AND SHIP BY AIR — BETTER AND FASTER