forms a slight hump on top of the plane’s nose. There is a method to this seeming madness, for when the 747 is used for cargo (it can carry 100 tons) the nose flips open like a freight bay onto the main deck and through the length of the plane via a roller system in the floor. Behind the cockpit there is space for additional private passenger accommodations. This area can be divided into two offices or staterooms with beds, or be converted into a spacious lounge. A circular staircase connects these upper level accommodations with the main cabin, creating the effect of an airborne salon.
The Superjet will load its passengers through 10 doors, each wide enough for two persons to walk through at a time, have five galleys to prepare food and will contain a total of 15 rest rooms.
Inside the Superjet, passengers will find it even quieter than aboard today’s jets. The four Pratt & Whitney turbofan engines, each with 43,500 pounds of takeoff thrust, will lift the 747 off a 9,150-foot runway. An 11,500-foot runway is required for some current jets. And because the engines can lift the 747 to an altitude of 45,000 feet, a mile higher than jets now flying, the 747 will be able to fly in airspace not now in use and thus ease sky traffic congestion.
The 747 is being built in anticipation of continued growth in air travel. It is expected that within 10 years three times as many people will be flying as are flying today. Since the 747 can carry three times more passengers than today’s jets, its development was a must in the already crowded skies if they were not to become completely jammed with aircraft.
Before the first commercial 747 flies for Pan American in 1969, it will have undergone the most extensive testing under-
taken in the history of air travel. The schedule includes a thorough check of components in the laboratory and a yearlong flight test program with five of the 710,000-pound planes. Two complete airframe structures will be used in separate static and fatigue test programs. In the static testing the airframe will be subjected to stresses and loads far in excess of those it will experience in airline service. In the fatigue test program the 747 airframe will undergo repeated operation of its flight controls and cabin pressurization systems. These tests will be carried out at an accelerated rate designed to compress the equivalent of years of regular airplane operation into a period of months. The goal of these programs is to prove an airframe life of 60,000 hours for the 747—the equivalent of more than 15 years of normal airline operation.
Nothing is being left to chance. Even inflight entertainment systems are being developed especially for the 747. One plan calls for direct projection motion picture units for wide-screen film. The 28 by 76-inch screens, the largest ever developed for a passenger plane, are mounted at the forward end of the First Class section and on the walls of the center galleys and rest rooms in the Economy sections. Another plan calls for the use of 12-inch television sets suspended from overhead passenger service units, about 10 in each compartment. Video tapes, closed circuit or live television can be presented over this system. Boeing engineers foresee color programs and live pickups from communication satellites.
Each edition of the 747 will cost about $20-million, and with a price tag like that you can be sure the customer airlines expect everything to be perfect. And that is the way this Superjet will be when completed. Perfect. ■