General Information
Application for and participation in a tour to the People’s Republic of China is a three part process.
1.	Reservations. Due to the requirements for obtaining visa for travel to the People’s Republic of China, reservations can be accepted no later than 60 days prior to departure. It is recommended that bookings be made 120 days or more prior to departure since demand for travel to China
is extremely heavy. Upon receipt of your reservation, Pan Am’s World Tours will send a confirmation of space and all pertinent reservation forms.
2.	Deposit. A deposit of $250.00 per person is required within ten days of receipt of confirmation and reservation forms. At the time of deposit passengers will be required to read and concur in writing by signature with the terms and conditions of this tour. Deposit requirement must be met by deadline indicated; Pan Am’s World Tours reserves the right to cancel reservation when deposit and final payment dates are not met.
3.	Final Payment is due 75 days prior to departure. Final payment must be accompanied by passport and all applicable forms. This will enable Pan Am’s World Tours
to process the visa for the People’s Republic of China and return passports to the participant in a timely manner.
Method of Payment. Both deposit and full payment may be made with Pan Am Credit Travel Plan, Universal Air Travel Plan, American Express, Diners Club (also Torch Club), Master Charge, BankAmericard (Visa) or Carte Blanche.
Pre-China Briefing. In Hong Kong all tour members must attend the pre-China Briefing held on the fourth or fifth day of the tour following breakfast at your hotel. Forms required for crossing the border will be distributed and completed at this time. The Tour Leader will review the guidelines all members should follow while on tour in China as well as answer any last minute questions you may have.
Cancellations. Full refund will be made for cancellations received up to 60 days prior to tour departure. Cancellations or change of tour date received less than 60 days from the departure will be subject to a cancellation charge of $250.00 per person. Cancellations received less than 7 days from departure date will additionally be subjected to forfeiture of 25% of the applicable Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) fare in accordance with regulations of the International Air Transport Association. Land Cost The land cost shown is based on two persons sharing a twin-bedded room. The single rate shown includes single room supplements for all cities including the China portion of your itinerary. Should single rooms not be available at time of check-in, that portion of the supplement charged for China will be refunded to you upon your return. A limited number of single rooms are available at the single price shown.
Land Tour Services Only. If you wish to depart prior to the tour departure or wish to remain in the Orient longer than the GIT air
fare allows, you should indicate Land Only when you are making your reservation. Your travel agent or your local Pan Am ticket office can quote the air fare applicable to your desired itinerary and make the necessary flight reservations for you. It should be noted that the entire land portion of the tour must be purchased and transfers on arrival and departure will be provided only if arrival/ departure is on flights blocked for the group departure.
Air Fares. The air fares quoted are based on the Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) fare and requires a minimum group size of ten (10) passengers. First class and all-year economy air fares can be used in conjunction with this tour. Domestic air transportation within China is provided by the Civil Aviation Administration of China (C.A.A.C.) and is included in the land cost of the tour.
Refund of Unused or Changed Tour Arrangements. Unused hotel accommodations or any other unused service or feature of the tour is not refundable nor exchangeable for other accommodations, services or features. Within China no individual itinerary changes are allowed. If it becomes necessary to change features of the tour for the group the additional tour cost, if any, will be borne by the passengers.
Tour Prices for Children. Children are not eligible for any discount on the land portion of these tours. Children who are two years but less than twelve years of age pay 50% of the applicable adult air fare.
Baggage. To/ from the USA/Hong Kong/ Tokyo. Limited to a maximum of two (2) pieces of luggage, the combined total dimensions of both bags may not exceed 106 inches, and no piece may be larger than 62 inches or exceed 35 kilograms (77 lbs.). One or more pieces of carry-on luggage is allowed; the total combined dimensions may not exceed 45 inches. Within the People’s Republic of China passengers may only carry 20 Kilograms of luggage free (44 lbs.).
Strict enforcement of the regulations will be adhered to. All excess baggage charges will be collected at the airport. Baggage is at “owner’s risk” throughout the surface portion of the tour unless properly insured. Transfers. All transfers by motorcoach are included between airports, hotels and rail stations. Transfers are provided for all passengers who arrive and depart on flights booked for the group. Passengers arriving and departing independently are responsible for their own transportation. Porterage of two (2) bags throughout the land portion is included. This service applies outside the customs area of the airport.
Surface Transportation. All sightseeing, as well as overland portions, will be conducted by motorcoach/rail with English speaking guides/interpreters.
Tour Representatives. All tours will be accompanied by Pan Am’s World Tour Representatives whose sole function is to assist China International Travel Service guides/interpreters with coordination of logistics and communications.
Hotels. The right is reserved to substitute hotels of similar or higher category to those shown, should circumstances make it necessary. Hotels within China are at the discretion of China International Travel Service and will be advised upon arrival in each city. Hotels within China may not meet with the standards travelers have come to expect when traveling in the U.S.
Meals. American breakfast is included during your stay in Hong Kong and Tokyo plus a welcome dinner in Hong Kong and a farewell dinner in Tokyo. Breakfast, lunch and dinner is included during your stay in the People’s Republic of China.
Travel Documents. A valid passport for the length of your journey as well as an International Vaccination Certificate showing a valid smallpox and cholera vaccination.
Pan Am’s World Tours will secure the visa for entry into China; the visa fee is included in the land cost shown. Visa applications will be mailed with your reservation forms.
If you are traveling both outbound and return with the group it is not necessary to obtain a visa for Japan. A “Shore Pass” can be obtained upon arrival. However, should you plan to stay in Japan longer than 72 hours it is necessary to obtain a Japanese visa prior to sending your passport to Pan Am’s World Tours.
Tips and Taxes. Hotel and restaurant service charges and taxes are included throughout the program. No tipping is permitted in China and it is considered offensive to do so. Possible Changes in Itinerary. On occasion, conditions or situations beyond our control may require revisions to the itinerary shown. Every effort will be made, however, to ensure that such changes maintain the intent of the itinerary as closely as these conditions permit.
Not Included in the Cost of the Tour. Airport and other departure taxes, visa fees, except as previously noted; passport and photos as required; all items of a purely personal nature such as laundry, telephone calls, shopping expenses, etc.; beverages or meal items not included in menus provided on a group basis; meals not indicated on the itinerary; sightseeing and tours other than those specifically included; excess baggage charges.
All Departures are subject to a minimum of ten (10) participants. In the unlikely event that this number does not materialize well in advance of departure, you will be offered either a departure on the same date but via a different departure point, or a different departure date or a full refund on the deposit paid.
All Tour Prices. Based on tariffs and currency exchange rates in effect July 1, 1978 and are subject to change.
Validity. January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1979.
)K"


