China Highlights
Shenyang
Peking
Shihchiachuang#
Sian
Chengtu
►	Nanking
Wuhan« •»Shanghai
Changsha
Hangchow
Kunming
Tokyo
Hong Kong
Here are highlights of some of the cities you may visit during your stay in the People’s Republic of China. Upon confirmation and receipt of final payment a copy of the American’s Tourist Manual to the People’s Republic of China will be mailed to you and will provide more detailed information on these cities.
Peking will be included in all itineraries along with other cities selected by C.I.T.S. All itineraries are at the discretion of C.I.T.S. and subject to change.
Shanghai
Shanghai was once a small fishing village; however, just prior to the outbreak of the Opium War in the 1840’s it had grown into a bustling port with 50,000 inhabitants. Today, Shanghai is one of China’s major ports and its most populated city. It is an amazing city of contrasts from the Shanghai Industrial Exhibition, where new products of the industry are displayed, to the Swan Lake in the Shanghai West Suburb Park. There are many sights and experiences to fill your time here: Visitors may enjoy seeing the many parks of the city, the Shanghai Museum of Arts and History, Lung Hua Temple district and the Children’s Palace.
Beijing (Peking)
Peking is the capital of the People’s Republic of China and the country’s political, economic and cultural center.
A city with a long history, Peking from the beginning of the 10th-century was first the secondary capital of the Liao Dynasty and then the capital of the succeeding dynasties—Jin, Yuan, Ming and Quing.
Since the founding of the People’s Republic of China, Peking has made great strides in its industry, agricultural science and culture and has been through many changes. Over the course of many centuries the people have created a glorious culture of grandeur and splendor. The city of Peking is famous for its traditional arts and crafts which include ivory sculpture, jade carvings, Cloisonne and carpets.
There is a wealth of places to see but perhaps the first place to start “getting to know” Peking is Tienanmen Square.
The square is visited daily by thousands of Chinese. In Tienanmen Square Chairman Mao first raised the flag of the People’s Republic of China. Many monuments and museums in this area are devoted to the most recent chapter in the history of China. There are many other places to visit as well: The Palace Museum, the Summer Palace, the Great Wall of Badaling, the Ruins of Peking, Apemen at Zhoukoudian, the Temple of Heaven, the Ming Tombs and Beihai Park.
Hangchow (Hangzhou)
This century-old city is famous for the scenic beauty of its West Lake. The lake is enclosed by hills on three sides. The Su and Bai causeways divide the lake into three parts — Inner Lake, Outer Lake and Back Lake. Some of the favorite spots to visit are Liuhue Pagoda (pagoda of six harmonies), Lingyin Temple and Feilai Peak (peak flown from afar).
Since the revolution Hangchow has developed a wide variety of industry. It is said here “make the past serve the present, let a hundred flowers blossom; weed through the old to bring the new.” And they have done just that, they have designed and made some new silk parasols and exquisitely embroidered brocades.
Hangchow is also the home of Langjing Tea, one of the most celebrated teas in China.
Kwangchow (Canton)
This important 2,000 year old city is located on the delta of the Zhu Jiang (Pearl) River. Since 1957 Canton has been the home of the bi-annual Chinese Export Commodities Fair, an integral part of promoting trade and contacts with other countries of the world.
Revolutionary memorial places of interest in Canton include the former site of the National Institute of the Peasant Movement founded by Mao Tse Tung, the Memorial Hall to Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the Park for the Martyrs in the Kwangchow Uprising and the Mausoleum of the 72 Martyrs at Huanghuagang.
The city has many scenic attractions, that have been completely restored such as Yuexiu Park, the Cultural Park, the zoo, Liuhua (Stream of Flowers) Park and Baiyun (White Cloud) Mountain. From the top of Mt. Yuexiu you can get a spectacular view of the whole city.
Kweilin
Capital of the Kwangsi Chuang Autonomous Region, Kweilin is most well known for its spectacular scenic beauty. Needle-like mountain peaks stretch straight up from level ground. Because Kweilin is located by the Li Jiang River you can see these unusual peaks reflected in the water making for some beautiful scenery and prize-winning photographs. Many of the peaks have caves which are interesting to explore because of their unique multicolored stalactites and stalagmites.
The most popular sights are Ludi(Reed Pipe) Cave, Qixing (Seven Stars) Cave, Duxiu (Solitary Beauty) Peak and Xiangbi (Elephant Trunk) Hill. Visitors to Kweilin find it a most restful and beautiful spot.
Kunming
The southern most province in China is Yunnan with Kunming as its capital. The city has a history which dates back to 100 B.C. Many Americans will remember Kunming as being at the east end of the Burma Road. Kunming is known today primarily for its mining of copper, lead, zinc, iron and its large chemical complexes. Kunming also boasts of its beautiful lake, old temples, parks and university.