It is mandatory that each tour participant attend this session as it will be necessary to fill out forms required for border crossing, registration of valuables, etc. Also there will be time for an in-depth question and answer period.
During your leisure time today, you may want to visit Macao, only 40 miles from Hong Kong. It was the first Western colony in the Orient, founded in 1557 and still a province of Portugal. Highspeed hydrofoils skim across the water every 75 minutes.
Macao has the feel of a European city, and has more churches per square mile than any other city in the world. Most impressive is St. Paul’s Basilica gutted by fire in 1835. Its carved facade was designed by Italian Jesuits in the Renaissance style and was built by Japanese workers in the 1630’s. This resulted in a strange blend of Eastern and Western art.
Macao’s six gambling casinos might tempt you to make an evening of it—but remember that there’s no hydrofoil service back to Hong Kong after dark!
5TH THROUGH 14TH DAYS.
IN CHINA.
After an early breakfast on the fifth morning of your tour you will begin your adventure of visiting the People’s Republic of China. You will be transferred from your hotel in Hong Kong to the train station. The train you board stops at Lo Wu and you will walk across the border to Shum Chun and officially enter the People’s Republic of China.
The itinerary you will follow in China is completely at the discretion of China International Travel Service and will vary with each departure date. When you receive your final itinerary, approximately 60 days prior to departure, the cities and length of stay will be detailed for you.
Please see pages 6 and 7 for brief descriptions of cities that may be included in your final itinerary.
15TH DAY.
PEKING/TOKYO.
After breakfast transfer to the airport for your flight to Tokyo. You will be met by your Pan Am’s World Representative outside the Customs area and transferred to your hotel. Remainder of the day at leisure.
Tokyo, where mansions, palaces, and tenements sit side by side, on streets that twist and turn and taper off without warning, leaves even postmen and taxi drivers bewildered. Summon up your courage and take a subway ride during the rush hour. You’ve just learned your first Japanese word: rushawa. During the nonrush hours, try a trip to the famous Ginza, which means Silver District—it once was the site of the mint. The Ginza’s eight blocks hold many bars, nightclubs and restaurants. At night it outshines Times Square.
One of the things that always surprises visitors to the world’s largest city is its splashes of color. Wreaths of flowers ornament the streets, brilliant kimonos flash by, pale pink houses flutter with flags. Even the garbage trucks are bright blue.
The city sits on a broad plain only a few feet above sea level, and its spider-web shape closely resembles Tokugawa, its medieval predecessor. In the center is the Imperial Palace, surrounded by a serene moat and park. You might want to visit it on a tour today. Be sure to return to your hotel in time to prepare for your farewell dinner.
16TH DAY.
TOKYO.
The day is free to explore on your own, relax, shop or your Pan Am’s World Representative will be happy to arrange any optional tours you might like to take. In the evening rejoin your friends for a farewell banquet at your hotel.
17TH DAY.
TOKYO/USA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight back to the USA. You’ll recross the International Date Line and arrive the same day.
For departure dates and air fares see General Information.
5