Your Introduction to China
As an aid in preparation for your tour to the People’s Republic of China, Pan Am’s World Tours has compiled the following information.
In addition to John E. Felber’s “American Tourist Manual for the People’s Republic of China” that you receive from Pan Am’s World Tours, there are several other tourist manuals generally available from bookstores, including Nagle’s Encyclopedia Guide to China. The latter is considered by many to be the most comprehensive guidebook available today. Tour participants will also receive a bibliography of books on numerous subjects relative to China with their tour documentation. The bibliography is provided for general information purposes only, and in no way is intended to express a particular point of view by Pan Am’s World Tours.
Getting Along in China
Touring China is considerably different from a typical tour to any other destination. It is a unique opportunity to experience a different life style first hand. It requires a degree of sensitivity to the customs of the people and a willingness to accept the tour arrangement “as is” regardless of your particular interest or taste.
We believe you will find the Chinese people you come in contact with during the tour to be courteous and friendly; and by observing a few do’s and don’ts, you will find it easy to get along. Be sure you can accept the following guidelines before requesting confirmation on a tour departure.
1.	There are no deviations permitted
from the tour itinerary you receive except those that China International Travel Service may require.
2.	Hotel and transportation arrangements must be accepted as provided in China regardless of your viewpoint of the practicality of the arrangements or condition of the facilities.
3.	As a visitor to any foreign country, a faux pas that could embarrass you or your hosts usually results from lack of understanding of the customs of the country and its people. By observing a few guidelines when visiting China and using common sense, you should not encounter any difficulties. Areas of sensitivity you should be particularly aware of include:
A.	The leadership and government of the People’s Republic of China is held in the highest esteem by its citizens. Under no circumstances should any tour participant make any critical or comical reference
to either.
B.	Any comment or inference of a sexual nature is considered offensive.
Also, any form of physical contact, with the exception of hand shaking, is to be avoided in keeping with the Chinese customs.
C.	All the people in China are considered of equal merit. Talking down to a waiter or porter or being loud and demanding of any service personnel is considered ill mannered. If you have a problem, advise your Team Leader who can discuss it with the C.I.T.S. representative.
D.	Pictures should only be taken after permission of the person(s) you wish to photograph is received. Simply showing the camera to the individual or group will normally get a positive or negative reaction. Be guided accordingly. Photos may not be taken from airplanes or at any time when C.I.T.S. requests it not be done.
E.	A visit to a school, commune, factory, hospital, etc., normally includes a pre-tour briefing of the facility by some of its staff. The briefing is translated into English by the C.I.T.S. interpreter. At the end of the tour of the facility, time is set aside for a question and answer period, so that tour members may query the facilities staff on subjects not covered or fully explained during the tour. Both the pretour briefing and the question and answer period are planned to provide the visitors
with as much information on the subject at hand as possible. Being attentive during the session, allowing your fellow tour members equal time to ask their questions and thanking the staff of the facility for their time and effort at the conclusion of the question and answer period is both appropriate and in good taste.
It is not unusual when visiting a facility to be greeted with applause upon your arrival by many of its members. The polite response is to applaud in return. Applause is the Chinese way to express welcome and friendship.
F.	Punctuality is a virtue in China. You will find your hosts always on time and tour members in turn will get maximum use of their time by being punctual for all events.
G.	Tipping is not required in China, and is considered an insult by the Chinese people. A warm smile and a sincere thank you for courtesies extended or services performed is most appreciated.
H.	Gift-giving is not an insult but under no circumstances is it mandatory or expected. In many cases it will be politely declined. A small gift as a genuine show of friendship may be accepted but it should not be of high value.
I.	Most meals are served at the hotel you are visiting, but normally a tour will be taken to one or more restaurants. A lunch at a commune is also usually included at some point on the itinerary. Breakfast is Western style consisting of eggs, coffee and toast. At selected hotels in some cities, Western meals are available. Meal portions tend to be generous so please do not request more food unless it is going to be consumed. At the last meal taken in a hotel, in lieu of tipping, your Tour Leader may invite the kitchen staff and service personnel to gather for a round of applause from the tour members. Please be cognizant of this and, if possible, remain in the dining room till the “thank you” has been extended. Similar courtesies may also be extended to the staff of a restaurant.
Generally speaking, observing the courtesies and using the manners you normally do when visiting a friend’s home will avoid any embarrassing moments for you or your fellow tour members.