Great Wall, Peking
Helpful Hints
Some more practical points all tour members should be aware of include:
1.	Tour Pace. The pace of the tour in China is busy but not overly strenuous. However, due to time changes, a different diet and plenty of fresh air, some tour members will find it better to take a day or half a day off to rest in their hotel, rather than become overtired. Some leisure time is built into the tour, and it
is suggested it be used as a rest period.
2.	Weather. The temperature can vary considerably from city to city as well as seasonally. A comparative temperature chart by city is contained in the tour manual you will receive and should be consulted when selecting your wardrobe for the tour.
3.	Attire. Your wardrobe should be selected on the basis of comfort and climatic conditions, not for style. Comfortable walking shoes are a must. There is no need to “dress up” for any events on your China itinerary. Slacks and sport shirts are appropriate for the gentlemen. While tasteful length skirts or dresses are fine, ladies may find slacks more practical. Both ladies and gentlemen should always dress modestly. During the colder months, particularly for the visit to the Great Wall, attire suitable for a cold New England winter is necessary. Again, consult the temperature chart in the manual for the cities you will be visiting before selecting your wardrobe. A fold up, light plastic raincoat and collapsible umbrella could come in handy.
4.	Currency. The currency of China is called Renminbi. Its basic unit is the Yuan. At the time of printing, one U.S. dollar was equal to approximately 1.69 Yuan. The Yuan is subdivided into Jiao and Fen. 10 Fen are equal to 1 Jiao, and 10 Jiao equals 1 Yuan. Yuan notes are printed in denominations of 1, 2, 5 and 10 Yuan. Jiao notes are printed in denominations of 1, 2 and 5 Jiao. Coins are valued at 1, 2 and 5 Fen.
All items purchased in China must be paid for in Chinese currency. Foreign currency and travelers checks can be exchanged at the branches of the Bank of China, usually located in each hotel the tour stays at in China, or in a Friendship Store. An official currency exchange memo is always given at the time of exchange and should be retained by the tour member. It will be required to reconvert excess Chinese currency to U.S. dollars, etc. Chinese currency can also be purchased with travelers checks only at the Bank of China in Hong Kong. All types of currency brought into China must be declared when entering the country. No Chinese currency can be taken out of China so each tour member must reconvert his/her excess Chinese currency prior to departing China.
5.	Travelers Checks. Following are the travelers checks currently accepted in China: Bank of America, Barclays, Thomas Cook, Lloyds, Midland, National Westminster, Bank of Tokyo, Fuji, Mitsui, Sumitomo, Algemene Bank Nederland, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Bank fur Gemeinwirt-schaft, Banque de Bruxelles, Banque Nationale de Paris, Commercial Bank of Australia, Credit Lyonnais, Deutsche Bank, Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, Standard Chartered Bank and Swiss Bankers. Bank of China travelers checks can be purchased in Hong Kong at the branch of the Bank
of China.
6.	Shopping. There will be ample time in China during the tour for shopping. The largest variety of goods are found in the Friendship Stores which are similar to large United States department stores. They cater specifically to foreign tourists and many members of the sales staff speak English. There also may be opportunities to visit local Chinese department stores and shops en route. All prices are standard for the same items throughout
China. There is no bargaining or haggling over prices. If purchasing an antique, make sure it has a special red wax seal and you are issued a special customs declaration form at the time of purchase. If you intend to ship an item home, allow sufficient time when making the purchase for the completion of the necessary paper work. Be patient, it can take time.
Duty on purchases made in China and brought into the U.S. can be quite high since China is not currently covered by most favored-nation status. If you intend to purchase a specific item in China, it is advisable to check with the U.S. Customs office prior to departing on the tour to ascertain the applicable import duty.
7.	Health/Medication. The Chinese have excellent medical facilities, employing both Western and Eastern styles of medical treatment. They are highly solicitous over the well-being of the tourists and any tour member who requires medical attention should immediately advise their Team Leader. Not all types of prescription drugs are available, so each tour member who requires medication should bring an ample supply.
8.	Cameras/Film. All still cameras and motion picture cameras up to 8 mm may be brought into China for personal use.
A sufficient supply of film should be purchased prior to entering China. Only 35 mm black and white film is available and not in all cities. Polaroid or Kodak instant cameras are crowd pleasers, and don’t be surprised if you attract a good number of people if you use one. The pictures make excellent gifts. Bring more film than you think you will need.
9.	Services. Most hotels provide excellent inexpensive laundry service. Also, many have beauty parlors and barber shops charging very reasonable rates for their services. Wake-up calls should be left with the service desk on your hotel floor before retiring.
10.	Beverages. It is strongly recommended not to drink the tap water. Boiled water is supplied in each hotel room in large thermos bottles. Ice made from purified water is usually available from the service desk located on each floor of the hotel. Soft drinks and beer are also available. Chinese wines and liquors can be purchased but should be consumed in moderation. American made beverages are not available in China.
11.	Tobacco/Liquors. You may bring to China four bottles of liquor and three cartons of cigarettes.
12.	Communications. Letters and postcards should be mailed from your hotel. Stamps can be purchased usually in a shop in the lobby. Phone calls to the United States should be placed with the hotel operator or through the service desk on your hotel floor well in advance of when you actually want to complete the call. Facilities for sending cables are normally found in most hotels.