The Marble Boat, Summer Palace, Peking
Wuhan
This city has a long history steeped in revolutionary tradition and was at one time three cities; Hankou, Hanyang and Wuchang. The three cities are now one due primarily to the building of the Yangtze River Bridge which was completed in 1957. Wuhan is the capital of Hupeh Province and is located on both the Yangtze and the Hangshui Rivers.
The Yangtze River is of prime importance to the agricultural and industrial wealth of the area. Crops include rice, cotton, wheat and tea. Industrial production consists of iron, steel, glass and electronic equipment.
Each of the three cities of Wuhan abound in tourist sites and the city is a photographer’s dream. In Hankou there is the Children’s Library, old Custom House, Handicraft Display Center and the People’s Theatre; Hanyang to the south has the Tortoise Mountain, Chang Ma Cavern and Yu Huang Palace and Wuchang has the Snake Mountain, Yellow Crane Court and First Up-rising Park among its many attractions.
The East Lake of Wuhan, however, is perhaps the biggest attraction in the entire area. One can revisit the lake many times and can always find new scenic wonders. Among the best known are Hong Shang Pagoda, Pao Tong Buddhist Temple and the Tomb of the Nine Heronies.
Sian
Once considered the largest city in the world and visited by Marco Polo in the 13th-century, Sian is a principal center of ancient Chinese culture. One can view prehistoric relics dating back as far as 6,000 B.C. The Bell Tower and Drum Tower built in the 12th-century are of particular interest. Other sights of note are the historical museum which is housed in a former temple, the Loong-In Chamber and the Big Goose and Little Goose Pagodas.
Shenyang
The capital of the Liaoning Province is the largest city and most important communications center in northeast China. Shenyang is a growing industrial city with a population of 3,100,000. Their highly acclaimed acrobatic team has entertained audiences all over the world. Industrial production includes aircraft, trucks, cars, chemicals and electrical equipment.
This city is also rich in historical background. Its origins date back to the Liao Dynasty of the 12-century when the city was called Shen. Captured by the Manchus in the 17th-century it was the capital of China from 1625 to 1644 when they moved to Peking. A visit to the Imperial Palace and the North and East Tombs gives one a feeling of the city’s long history.
Shihchiachuang
Before the building of China’s railway system Shihchiachuang was a small village of a dozen or so houses. Now it is one of the pivot points in North China’s railway communications. Located in the shadow of the Taihang Mountains with the rich North China Plains on three sides, Shihchiachuang is an up-and-coming manufacturing city with textiles, chemicals and machine-building being the main production. Grain is also important in this area’s economy.
Nanking
The Kiangsu Province capital is located facing the Yangtze River with the Chung Shan Mountains in the background. The city’s setting has been described as “the Chung Shan Mountains curling like a dragon and the city crouching like a tiger”. With a history of 2,500 years Nanking has the distinction of being one of China’s truly ancient cities. It has served as the capital for many ancient dynasties as well as during the presidency of Dr. Sun Yat-sen. Because of the part this city has played in the history of China one has the unique opportunity of seeing the relics of the past as well as the progress of modern China.
Sites of primary interest are the 24 enormous city gates; the Tomb of Dr. Sun Yat-sen, China’s first president; the Nanking Yangtze River Bridge, a great engineering feat which opened direct access from Shanghai to Peking; the Ming Tombs; Ling Kuo Park and the Observatory at Tze Gin Mountains. The visitor will find that Nanking provides a treasure trove of sights and experiences.
Chengtu
Located in the Province of Szechwan, Chengtu is a major educational center. It is the home of the University of Szechwan and Changhwa University along with many other halls of learning.
Its location directly on a tributary of the Min River has made Chengtu a natural as an important supply city. You’ll find mainly rice, wheat and sweet potatoes grown, but perhaps as important, all kinds of medicinal plants and herbs are grown here that are shipped all over China.
Changsha
Capital of Hunan Province and located on the Hsiang River in south-central China, Changsha is noted for its beautiful embroidery and porcelain figurines, textiles and umbrellas.
Changsha has a history of over 3,000 years but is spoken of in today’s China as the place where Chairman Mao studied and became interested in revolutionary activities. There are many sights that Chairman Mao is linked with in this area —the First Normal School (Chairman Mao attended this school as a boy and later taught here), Self-Study University, the Chingshuitang (Clear Water Pond), Orange Island and Ai Wan (Lovely Evening) Pavilion.