Welcome to China
Greeting for American Tourists
Pan Am’s World believes you will find your tour to the People’s Republic of China a unique and totally enjoyable experience. Touring China offers considerably more than visits to major historical sites, museums, parks, etc., which in themselves are worth the price. This tour provides the opportunity to observe the day to day lifestyle and culture of the people living in the world’s most populated nation. It has not been designed to appeal or cater to those individuals who have a specific interest i.e., archaeology, medicine, history, etc., but rather to those who desire an introduction to the many facets of China. These tours are not available for people intending to visit relatives or conduct business with any entity in the People’s Republic of China.
In addition to visiting places such as the Imperial (Forbidden) City in Peking and the Great Wall, your tour normally will include an in-depth look at contemporary China with visits to communes, schools, medical facilities and industrial complexes—and still you will
noiio timo TAr cnAnrunn1 nnri rainvofiAti
Seeing the Chinese people at work and play is perhaps the best way to form your own perspective on modern day China.
To get the maximum enjoyment and educational exposure from your tour, a little homework before you depart and a flexible and positive attitude while you are on tour will go a long way. First, may we urge you to digest thoroughly the information contained in the tourist manual you will be sent when we receive your final payment. This will provide you with the basic information you need on weather, currency, background material on China plus comprehensive descriptions on most of the places you will visit. This can be supplemented by other reading material of your choice. Equally as important as preparing yourself prior to departure will be your attitude while on tour. You will only get out of this tour what you put into it. If you have a friendly and cooperative manner, you will find the rest of your tour members will respond in kind. Traveling in a group requires the cooperation of each tour member. If a few people are late for the start of the day’s activities, it inconveniences the rest of the group. The tour is being conducted to ensure the overwhelming majority of the tour members get full use of the time available. Individual deviations from the itinerary are not allowed since they require special arrangements and there is simply not the manpower or time available to do it.
Your group will consist of a maximum of 100 tour members. For traveling in China the overall group is subdivided into smaller groups referred to as “teams” consisting of approximately 25 tour members plus a Pan Am’s World Representative and a China International Travel
Service (C.I.T.S.) guide/interpreter. The assignment of tour members to a team is completed prior to the tour departure from the U.S. It is done to conform to the standard bus capacity in China as well as help with the logistics of handling baggage and room assignments. Day to day details of each tour’s itinerary as well as choice of hotels is the prerogative of C.I.T.S. The accommodations tend to be adequate to modest. Do not expect hotels to be up to the physical standards of U.S. hotels; however, they do normally provide excellent service. It is quite possible that all details of your China tour itinerary will not be available prior to departure. It is also possible the “final itinerary” you receive may change in some regard once you enter China. Changes may occur for reasons such as weather and hotel availability. All tours will visit Peking; however the balance of the itinerary can vary by departure. If you find unanticipated changes unpalatable or cannot accept accommodations considerably less than you normally would prefer you may not wish to participate in this program.
While the tours are well organized, we have tried not to overstructure them to the point where it would be difficult to absorb the sights and sounds you will experience. There will be ample time for shopping and relaxing.
Please make sure you read all the details on the “Your Introduction to China” and “General Information” pages in this brochure.
Be flexible, keep an open mind, and we believe you will have an extraordinary travel adventure.
Pan Am’s World Tours