The World s Most Exacting Technical Experts
''a*, «sc
f.
M
The Clipper that stands there, bright and shining, ready to take you anywhere in the world is more than something beautiful to look at. It is a superb piece of machinery, kept in top operating condition by men especially trained in their work, by methods that allow no compromise with safety.
Requirements for Clipper mechanics are as strict as for flying personnel. First qualification is a Federal license — hard-won through years of experience and training in aircraft maintenance. Then there's months of training in Pan American's shop under instructors, plus special courses on each type of airplane — 5 weeks for supervisors, 3 weeks on each specialty for mechanics.
It takes this kind of man to properly care for an airliner such as the Double-Decked "Strato" Clipper, that costs one and one-half million dollars. And such a plane, by Pan American standards, must live a rigidly regulated life. Inspections and overhauls are regular and unfailing. At each stop, Clippers are checked and inspected. At scheduled and frequent operating time intervals, every part of every plane is gone over. Engines are overhauled every 800 or 1000 hours of operation. Certain things, such as spark plugs and instruments, are changed or discarded automatically at set service periods, regardless of how good their condition may be. For every hour that a Clipper flies, it receives two hours of maintenance.

Pan American's maintenance bases are located throughout the world. The new overhaul base in Miami is the largest airline maintenance plant in the world. This is "headquarters" for Clipper mechanical overhaul. Seven acres of floor space are devoted to engine overhaul alone. Specialized techniques, the most modern equipment, and factory production methods are employed. Inner structure of metals is revealed for inspection by Zyglo (black light) and the Magnaflux processes, as accurate as human X-ray. A single engine for a Double-Decked "Strato" Clipper costs $65,000. Here, 50 of these engines, worth $3,250,000 are stored — available as spare engines whenever needed. Chemical laboratories analyze fuels, lubricants and materials.
It is these things you don't see that give you full confidence in Clipper travel, wherever Clippers may fly. For it is these things that have enabled Pan American to win more safety awards than any other airline, at the same time flying 700 million miles, and carrying over 10 million commercial passengers, since 1927 — an operating record unequalled by any other airline. And how far is 700 million miles? It's equal to 28,000 trips around the earth at the equator! In establishing this record, PAA has carried twice as many people abroad as all other U.S. airlines combined.
IN
26
