We Teach Eagles to Fly
T o fly a Clipper, you’ve got to be more than a good pilot. You’ve got to meet Pan American’s standards — and in all the world, there are none tougher.
Even when a pilot first reports to PAA he is quite a man. He is a U.S. citizen, not over 28 years of age. 90% have college background. He is a graduate of a military air training school. He must have 750 accredited flying hours, and a commercial license with instrument rating. He must be able to pass rigid government and company physicals, as well as tests of personality and aptitude.
All this admits him to his Clipper internship only. He must take courses in navigation, radio and Radiotelephone, meteorology, crew and passenger relationships that extend over 1 years — with regular refresher courses thereafter. Before he can be made a member of the flight crew of a Clipper of any type, he must take an intensive training and familiarization course for that particular ship. In the case of the Double-Decked “Strato” Clipper, this course is a minimum of 4 weeks. Pilot training requirements of Pan American are almost double those of any other airline.
Once he wears his Clipper wings, he must con-
tinue to prove his ability. He must pass strict physical tests every 6 months. Even after reaching Co-Pilot (First Officer) stage he cannot be promoted to Captain unless he has more than 2,000 hours flying time (Clipper Flight Officers have logged as much as 30,400 flying hours, or 6,000,000 miles). Pilots cannot fly more than 350 hours in 90 consecutive days, nor serve more than a maximum of 12 continuous hours on the flight deck.
It is common practice in testing machines to subject them to tests far greater than they will ever encounter in actual service. Pan American, exclusively among airlines, has a device which does exactly the same thing, only with men. It’s called the Dehmel Electronic Flight Simulator, developed by Curtiss-Wright in association with PAA. The Flight Simulator is an exact replica, down to the finest detail, of the interior flight deck of a Double-Decked “Strato” Clipper. Every 60 days Clipper flight crews are brought in for training, as a team, in this human test chamber. Through the Simulator, which never leaves the ground even so much as an inch, every condition and situation of normal flight — and more importantly of extreme abnormal flight — can be created. The crew trained in this land-bound ship is a crew more skilled, more tried and more expert than would otherwise ever be possible.