Treat yourself to one of hundreds of lowest-cost-ever all-inclusive Pan Am Holiday Tours
One of the most satisfying ways to do Europe — especially the first time — is on a cost-inclusive Pan Am Holiday Tour. Escorted ... or Planned-for-You Independent. Either way, a tour can be your biggest travel bargain — now more than ever before. Dozens to choose from, or tailor to your individual interests. And you know in ad-
vance what everything’s going to cost — hotels, meals, sightseeing, entertainment, air fares, ground transportation. Consider the three described here, for fun. Or see your Pan Am Authorized Travel Agent or Pan Am office for the all-inclusive tour itinerary that’s just right for you — and your holiday budget, too!
PAN AM "GOLDEN ODYSSEY" HOLIDAY #400
PAN AM "9 CAPITALS" HOLIDAY #411
21 days in Italy/Yugoslavia/Greece
Ancient Athenian temples, unhurried Yugoslav villages, throbbing Greek waterfront taverns, mirage-like Dalmation Islands, Pompeii and the Appian Way — even a shiny white cruiser to carry you across the azure blue Ionian — of such dreams is an odyssey made! Dance on the 12th century walls of Dubrovnik, dive into waters governed by the legendary sea god Poseidon near Cape Sounion, gather poppies from Elysian fields, flirt with “danger” from behind dark glasses on Rome’s Via Veneto! The playgrounds of today’s princes and yesterday’s goddesses dot this itinerary; it’s deliciously different. Bored with the beaten path? Here’s your tour. It offers a new look at golden lands. Thrills aplenty!
From New York - Formerly $794 - After April 1 Only $737
21 days in London/Amsterdam/Bonn/Berne/Vaduz Vienna/Rome/Monte Carlo/Paris
See for yourself the great historic and contemporary attractions of London, the canals and charm of Amsterdam. Sail up the lovely, castle-lined Rhine River. Visit old Heidelberg, storied university city immortalized in “The Student Prince.” In sparkling Switzerland, marvel at the mountains, lakes and picture-postcard villages. Vienna beckons with music, gaiety and romance, as does Nice with sun and scenery. Nearly four complete days to explore the Eternal City, Rome — another four for Gay Paris . . . the Louvre, Versailles and all the rest! An incomparable “first time over” Continental tour.
From New York - Formerly $994 - After April 1 Only $927
PAN AM "EASTERN EUROPE" HOLIDAY #433
21 days in Russia/Poland/Czechoslovakia/Hungary Rumania/ Yugoslavia
You’ll see in person the exciting places and sites you’ve read about in past and current history — from Moscow’s Kremlin with its House of Congresses, Armory Museum and cathedrals to Budapest’s gay little restaurants with strolling violinists; from Prague’s medieval skyline of spires to Warsaw’s modern Palace of Culture. Your tour will include excursions to the USSR Exhibition of Economic Achievements and Agricultural Exhibition — Lenin Stadium and State University — a leisurely cruise along the Vistula River — a visit to Karlstejn Castle near Prague. No superficial “flying visit” this — you have several days to devote to thorough exploration of each of six fascinating eastern European capital cities.
From New York - Formerly $1097 - After April 1 Only $978
4