Those fellows in
Customs
If “Customs” has an ominous sound to you, perhaps you’ve been watching too many diamond and dope smugglers on the late late show. Chances are, you’ll get through in five minutes or so. With luggage still neatly packed. And a smile.
If you want to bring home your purchases duty-free, stop buying when you’ve spent $100 retail. The exemption from duty is $100 per person every 31 days. If several members of a family travel together, the exemption may be pooled. In other words, a family of three can bring in $300 worth duty-free.
The procedure is far simpler than you may imagine. During your homeward Flight you complete a declaration of purchases made, including prices paid (try to have a sales slip for each). You list on your declaration, in addition to purchases you carry with you, anything you’ve bought and had shipped directly to your home. Wearing apparel and personal articles acquired overseas, even though worn or partly used, must be declared at full purchase price.
You may omit from your declaration any under $10 gifts which you have had sent directly to individual relatives and friends (no more than one a day to any one recipient). Such gifts, incidentally, cannot be liquor or tobacco.
You may bring almost anything home with you. Exceptions include lottery tickets, narcotics and certain meats, candies, fruits, vegetables and plants. Small quantities only of a few trade-mark items are per-
missible except when you have the manufacturer’s written permission to bring in more. Some French perfumes, for example, are limited to one bottle (any size) of each brand, unless labels or identifying marks are removed. Some watches and Danish silverware are similarly restricted.
The quantity limit on wines and liquor is 1 quart per adult, and on smoking tobacco 3 pounds per person (even infants). Duty is payable on any excess of these commodities even though your total purchases fall within the $100 exemption. Antiques (furniture, objects d’art, china, etc., made before 1830) are dutyfree. But be sure to obtain certificate attesting to age at time of purchase, and present to Customs with your declaration.
Naturally, you don’t have to stay within duty-free limits. And you probably won’t if you have many Paris gowns and German cameras on your shopping list. Just keep the duty in mind as you enjoy your shopping spree, to be sure your purchases will still seem like “bargains” after you’ve gone through Customs. Throughout your trip consult the nearest Pan Am office or U.S. Consul about any questionable purchase.
Canadians absent less than 14 days must bring all merchandise back with them. Limits differ slightly from those in the U.S. Under certain conditions, those who are abroad more than 14 days may ship goods back separately.
8