Embellished of course with your choice of aperitifs or cocktails. Appropriate vintage French wines as the courses progress. Champagne Brut Millesime, especially selected for Pan American, with dessert. Your favorite liqueur in finale.
All graciously served by Pan Am stewardesses in an appetite-stimulating setting of handsome linen, gleaming flatware and fragile china.
In the Economy cabin, service is equally gracious. You enjoy a delicious full-course hot meal bearing the gourmet stamp that is the unmistakable mark of Maxim’s of Paris. Cocktails and wines, too, if you wish, at moderate prices.
A word about Pan Am beverages — available with assorted snacks throughout your flight as well as at mealtimes — complimentary when you fly First Class and at nominal cost when you choose budget-pleasing Economy service. Only the finest alcoholic and soft drinks, coffees and teas are served on Pan Am Jet Clippers. Whiskeys, gins, vodkas and rums are the brands you recognize as excellent, mixed to your order. The French wines are magnificent — the reds served at room temperature, the whites chilled. Coffee, in a blend preferred by American coffee-lovers, is brewed in small batches as required. And tea is carefully-steeped orange pekoe.
In both President Special and Rainbow Economy cabins, special meals are provided to satisfy dietary needs or religious preferences. Just make sure we are alerted to your requirements when your Flight reservations are being made.
Should you be with us on a breakfast flight, you’ll find this meal the lavish “Sunday brunch” type in Rainbow Economy . .. eggs cooked to your order and a wide choice of unusual delicacies in President Special.
In short, food is fun, Clipper style. All the more so because there’s no waiting for a table — no rushing to make room for others. You simply relax and enjoy every morsel, letting your pleasure last as long as you like. No tipping either, ever, aboard Pan Am!
If you’re planning to take the baby along, be sure to arrange in advance for special foods and a bassinet — at no extra charge.
A good feeling all the way...
... in every way. This is what you enjoy when you fly Pan Am — the World’s Most Experienced Airline. We’ll be happy to help you plan your perfect trip to Europe. And proud to have you aboard.
Bon Voyage...and Bon Appetit
16