Hers
His
Regardless of season or destination, you’ll find a two-or three-piece suit the ideal flight costume. Color-keyed to clothing you pack, its jacket/coat, skirt/ sheath and accessories can be versatile wardrobe extenders abroad. It will help if your hat is crushable. And plan to carry your most commodious handbag. It can accommodate no end of odds and ends that otherwise might overload your luggage. Including a folding plastic raincoat if you’re not carrying a rain-and-shine coat over your arm.
Remember that your cloud-soft Jet Clipper contour seat is so comfy your travel hours will fly. But no seat can ease the strain of a too-tight girdle or shoes that cut into your instep. If you make certain you’re thoroughly comfortable before you start, you’ll stay that way all the way.
2	easy-care nighties or PJs
3	complete sets undies (in addition to those you wear en route)
6 or more pairs nylons 1 pair walking shoes 1 or more pairs dressy shoes
1	or more dressy handbags
2	dressy dresses (at least one “cocktail” type)
3	daytime dresses
1 suit (in addition to that you wear en route)
1 cardigan (if only for air-conditioned restaurants)
1 robe (or beach cover-up)
1 pair traveling slippers (or beach footwear)
1 shower or bathing cap 1 bathing suit if needed
belts, scarves, costume jewelry and miscellaneous accessories
cosmetics and personal toilet articles.
Whatever you wear over plus one conservative business suit and two sets of interchangeable slacks and sports jackets should give you plenty of changes. Shoes are bulky and heavy — try to limit yourself to just one extra pair. And unless you’re stopping over in Scandinavia in the dead of winter, a rainproof topcoat carried over your arm should suffice for warmth most everywhere, whatever the season.
1	dark business suit	1 pair shoes
2	pairs slacks	1 sweater
2 pairs PJs
1 lightweight robe
1 pair slippers (or beach slipons)
1 pair swimming trunks if needed
shaving gear and personal toiletries
With the above as the basis for your “His” or “Her” wardrobe, you should still have sufficient luggage room and weight allowance for optional items you won’t be wearing or carrying en route.
Get everything together well ahead of time and practice-pack, using tissue in folding fabrics that wrinkle. Weigh the result on your bathroom scale (stand with all your luggage in hand, then subtract your own weight). Over 66 pounds if you’re flying First Class? Over 44 pounds if you’re flying Economy? Weed out as much as you can. Weigh again. Still too much? Nothing more you feel you can weed out? Then you’ll doubtless be happier paying a bit more to take the excess along.
2	harmonizing sports jackets
3	to 5 good wash-and-wear shirts
2 or 3 sportshirts
4	to 6 ties
4 sets underwear 6 pairs socks