Last-minute check list
Got your passport?
Your Pan Am ticket? Pre-arranged overseas transfers?
Your smallpox vaccination certificate (less than three years old) and any other immunizations required or advisable?
Your hotel confirmations?
Your travelers checks? Letter of credit? Appropriate credit cards? Business credentials?
Currency converter? (Should you forget, you’ll find a copy of “Clipper” magazine in the seat pocket of your Jet Clipper, with an up-to-date Currency Converter included.)
Odds and ends you wish to take along: Camera, film, binoculars, sunglasses, spare eyeglasses, luggage keys, allowed tobacco products, briefcase, portable typewriter, notebook or travel diary for impressions, travel iron with adapter, costume jewelry, bath soap, prescription medicines you may need, personal toiletries, ballpoint pen and/or pencils, address book, notepaper, list of those you intend to remember with souvenirs, addresses or phone numbers of people abroad you plan to look up, international driver’s license if you plan to do any driving, cigarette lighter, portable transistor radio with spare batteries, travel alarm clock, liquid or flaked soap for wash-wear laundry, small mending kit and tiny safety pins for emergency repairs, a few bandaids, fever thermometer?
Your HOUSE KEY?
Time to
You’ve checked in. You’ve watched your luggage being weighed and tagged. You’ve listened for the public-address announcement of your Flight. You’ve passed through the boarding gate — sure at last you haven’t forgotten your ticket, your passport! You’ve settled into your Jet Clipper contour seat, entrusting your coat and items you’d like stowed away to a gracious Pan Am stewardess.
You listen to soft music, the hushed murmur of great Jet engines, the excited chatter of fellow passengers.
take off
You ask yourself if this is really you — going to EUROPE? In just a few HOURS? It still seems like a miracle. It is a miracle.
Your Clipper begins to fill. How huge it is. You wonder about some of the others on board. Which are Americans? Which are Europeans returning home after a happy holiday here? Maybe you’ll know some of the answers before your Flight is through.
You fasten your seat belt, extinguish your cigarette.
14