Pick a nice low fare
Yes, you can. Now more than ever before. For one thing, when you fly Pan Am, you’ve a wide variety of different fares to choose from — to suit your budget, whatever it happens to be.
What’s more, in several of Pan Am’s most popular travel services, exciting new fare reductions take effect April 1, 1966. For instance, one of these — the 14/21 Day Jet Excursion Fare — brings a New York-Rome round trip ticket down to only $409 year round . . . with only brief periods of limitation. This way you save $36.50 to $135.40 over former low Winter Excursion and normal Economy fares. Even at these savings — thanks to Pan Am’s versatile Extra Cities Bonus Plan — you can still stop over in up to 20 additional cities en route to and from Rome without extra air fare.
This is just one exciting example of the new travel opportunities afforded by Pan Am’s new lowest-ever fares. Affinity Group Fares to Europe are also down. And so is the cost of hundreds of all-inclusive Pan Am Holiday Tours all over Europe!
But look over the whole fare story that follows. Then just check with your Pan Am Authorized Travel Agent or Pan Am office. We’ll help you pick out the best time and best way to go to please your mood and your budget. You take it from there!
First Class President Special.
The absolute ultimate in Jet travel. Extra attendants to serve you, extra room for sitting or strolling, extra luggage allowance. A lavish gourmet menu to select from — cuisine by Maxim’s of Paris and complimentary, of course. Complimentary bar service as well. The finest Jet travel service available anywhere, with no increase in fare even during peak seasons.
Low-Cost Economy Rainbow Service.
You fly the same Jet Clippers (with the same experienced crews) as in first class service. Your full course hot gourmet meals are complimentary, and bar service is yours at nominal cost. You enjoy superb Jet Clipper comfort, convenience and courtesies at remarkably low economy fares. Available seven days a
week all year except during “peak” periods: May 22-August 3 to Europe, July 17-September 28 from Europe.
14/21 Day let Economy Excursion.
Regular Rainbow service at substantial fare reductions available Mondays through Thursdays year round (effective April 1). Return travel must begin not less than 14 days after commencement of travel and must be completed by midnight of the 21st day after commencement. Only exceptions are these: travel to Europe may not begin June 13—July 7, August 8-Aug-ust 25,1966; travel from Europe may not begin June 6-June 23, August 22-September 28,1966.
Affinity Group Fares.
Regular Rainbow service at substantial per-person fare reductions for qualified affinity groups of 25 or more traveling together throughout seven months of the year — April 1 through October 31. Only exceptions: Weekends June/July to Europe, August/Sep-tember from Europe, and August 21 through September 6, 1966, from Europe. Check your group’s eligibility with Pan Am or your Travel Agent.
All-Expense Holiday Tours.
Under the new fares structure, you enjoy reduced rates for many cost-inclusive escorted and independent pre-arranged Pan Am Holiday Tours. For detailed descriptions of several representative tour itineraries — and the new low all-inclusive rates — see page 4.
All April 1, 1966 fares subject to government approval.
3