Say where and when
Where to begin? Somewhere. Anywhere. As a starter, perhaps there’s something you’ve always wanted to do MOST in Europe. Want to attend the Royal Ascot Races with Queen Elizabeth? Study the works of the masters in Rome, Florence, the Louvre? Spend St. Patrick’s Day in Dublin? Photograph the Midnight Sun in Scandinavia? Sit spellbound at a performance of the 200-year-old Salzburg Marionettes? Tackle an Alp — on foot or on skis? Dive for precious fragments of ancient statuary off Rhodes? Drift through the banks of the Rhine, gazing out upon the cathedrals, castles and villages of old Germany?
There’s no end to the possibilities. Just take your dream to the nearest Pan Am travel counselor. Then watch it develop into the trip of your lifetime, one you’ll remember forever. You start with one of Pan Am’s 27 European gateway cities. For the price of one you can have as many as 20. For as long as you like. To do what you like. All thanks to the Extra Cities Bonus plan.
Here’s an idea. Buzz long-haul city to city via Pan Am Jet. Pick up a rented car at each airport for local exploring. You’ll love the cities ... but get out into the countryside, too. Get to know some people. The real
people where you are.
When? As soon as you can. Two or three weeks are enough. A month or two is sublime. Summer’s still the most popular time for a trip — probably because the tradition of “summer vacations” dies hard. And of course because school schedules dictate the leisure time of many families.
But give a thought to the natural advantages of spring. Square miles of tulips in every direction in Holland ... fruit trees scenting the air, painting the hills and valleys pink and white. Or autumn. The brilliance of the changing seasons ... sip wine in a sun-splashed sidewalk cafe at mid-day — a tangy nip on your tongue, a tangy nip in the air. Fewer tourists around — more attentions and services for you. And even lower “off-peak” excursion air fares, hotel accommodations at off-season rates.
Or winter. The season when Europeans stay put and have their fun. The opera. Concerts. Midnight theatre in Madrid. Night-life at the Lido on the Champs-Élysées. Those fascinating outdoor Christmas toy festivals called Kris Kringle Marts, all through Germany.
Any time is right for Europe. You name it.
2