That
funny
money
The
language barrier that isn't there
Currency may seem confusing at first. Particularly if several European countries are on your itinerary and you’re trying to resolve the mysteries of pounds and shillings, francs, marks and pfennigs, drachmas and leptas, forints and fillers, etc., all at once.
Here again, Pan Am to the rescue. This time with a convenient Currency Converter that will help you determine approximations to dollar denominations as you go along. With it you can figure out what particular unit of currency wherever you are is roughly equivalent to a quarter or a dollar for tipping purposes, and go on from there.
It’s simple to arrange to leave the U.S. with a modest supply of the currency you’ll need at your first destination, though most European airports have exchange facilities where you may convert currency on arrival and/or departure. European countries, however, differ in the amounts of money, local or foreign, you may take in or out. As you arrange your itinerary, your travel counselor — either Pan Am or your Travel Agent — will give you the latest information on when and where to get the various currencies you’ll need.
Of course, you’ll find it safest and most convenient to have most of your funds in travelers checks, in both large and small denominations. They’re easily negotiable everywhere. Promptly refundable if lost unsigned, too. For this reason alone they’re well worth the small cost of 1% of whatever amount you buy.
Self-conscious about how little you remember of the French II or Introductory Spanish that used to win you honors in school? Have visions of finding yourself stranded in a strange land, unable to communicate with a single soul? Stop worrying!
English-speaking travelers are far from a novelty in Europe. Hotels, restaurants, department stores, shops, museums and other visitor attractions have been inundated with Americans and Englishmen for centuries.
As a result, you’ll find helpful English-speaking personnel on the premises most everywhere. If not, there’s one language that’s universal. GESTURES. Great fun, too.
There are a few situations, of course, where some clues to a strange-to-you language can be invaluable. In getting the gist of menus, for instance. Or in asking and understanding directions when you’re exploring without a guide. You may want to study up on a few key words or phrases before you go. Or carry a pocket dictionary or two with you. If the latter, just make sure they’re two-way dictionaries (that is, English to German as well as German to English, for example). Any Pan Am office or Travel Agent can help you get hold of any phrase books or dictionaries you feel are necessary.
9