Instant hotels
New hotels. Including eight of Europe’s newest and smartest — the Cork, Dublin and Limerick Intercontinentals in Ireland, the Frankfurt and Hannover Intercontinentals in Germany, The Hotel Intercontinental Geneve in Geneva, Switzerland, the Vienna Intercontinental in Austria, and the Hotel Esplanade in Zagreb, Yugoslavia. When you elect to stay at any of these, we can arrange your accommodations and your Flight reservations for you instantly. Just by pushing the PANAMAC® button. PANAMAC, exclu-
sively Pan Am’s, and the fastest, most reliable Reservation and Information System serving you anywhere.
New hotels. Old hotels. Deluxe hotels. Modest hotels. Motels. Charming inns that cost next to nothing to stay and dine royally in. All over Europe. Want to rent a palace, a fortress, a villa? Or part of one? We can find one for you in Italy, France, Austria, almost anywhere you’ll want to stay. It isn’t every night you can drift off to sleep in the company of a medieval ghost.
How about a European car
If you’re thinking of buying one, let a Pan Am Jet Clipper be your shopping cart. You can save substantially by picking up your car in Europe. The more expensive the car, the greater the savings.
However, you don’t have to be in the high income brackets to save substantially on a new car. Most Europe-built compacts are priced several hundred dollars under what you’d pay at home. Enough of a saving to cover freight charges, port fees, preparation, customs fees and duties — all the expenses of bringing it back with you. With something very special for an extra dividend: The use of your new car in Europe. Canadian citizens will save most on cars purchased in Britain.
But get hold of a complimentary copy of our “PLANNING GUIDE FLY-DRIVE EUROPE” — from your nearest Pan Am office or your Travel Agent. This informative booklet will tell you a lot about driving the Continent. And also explain the differences between buying a car, the purchase-repurchase plan, car leasing and car rental ... the circumstances under which one of these plans would best fit into your particular plans.
Should it turn out that Fly-Drive’s the way you want to do Europe, we’ll get specific prices and rental fees for you to compare. Advise you how to order or reserve the make and model of your choice, and get any necessary special certificates, insurances, etc.
6