In the distance you glimpse another sparkling blue and silver Pan Am Jet Clipper being readied for flight. Across the aisle a man with pencil in hand concentrates on a sheaf of papers. Obviously an experienced business traveler. He doesn’t bother to look up as the doors are secured — buckles up without taking his eyes from his work. Your Captain introduces himself over the intercom.
It all gives you a wonderful feeling. The superb aircraft, the quiet, matter-of-fact competence of your Jet Clipper crew. The equipment and the people that make Pan Am the World’s Most Experienced Airline.
Slowly and smoothly your Jet Clipper maneuvers to its runway. You listen in vain for the Jet take-off sounds you’ve heard on the ground. Unless you’re looking out the window as the airport moves away, you can hardly tell when you’re airborne. Gently your Jet Clipper reaches its altitude, its direction, its own special avenue to your destination. And there you are, on your way!
You slip off your seat belt, light up a smoke if you like. Your stewardess makes sure you’re wonderfully comfortable, that you have everything you need. A cocktail, perhaps? A magazine? You read. You chat. You make notes in your diary. You doze. On most flights to Europe, you may enjoy Pan Am’s Theatre-ln-The-Air, offering the choice of a first-run movie or any of 9 different entertainment channels.
From time to time your Captain gives you interesting details about your Flight. You’re so comfortable in the cabin, you find the outside temperature hard to believe. Possibly he identifies another aircraft on the horizon — later a liner leaving a widening wake in the blue below.
Presently it’s . . .
Maxim s at 30,000 feet
Is Paris on your itinerary? Are you planning to splurge some evening with dinner and dancing at Maxim’s? You’ll surely want to after your first complimentary taste of Maxim’s culinary excellence on your Pan Am Flight.
A special network of gourmet kitchens has been set up at major Pan Am gateways around the world . . . New York, San Francisco, Hong Kong, Paris, for example. And the galleys aboard Pan Am Jet Clippers have been especially designed and equipped to afford the famed Maxim’s finishing touches for the
incomparable cuisine. Together, these perfectly-meshed facilities ensure Pan Am’s passengers on every flight — both First Class and Economy — the superb quality that Maxim’s Paris reputation has been built upon.
A typical President Special menu offers these entree choices:
Le Filet de Boeuf rôti Sauce Bordelaise (Roast Fillet of Beef with Red Wine Sauce — sliced to your order, naturally); Le Suprême de Caneton Bigarade (Duckling with Oranges); Les Grenadins de Veau au Marsala (Grenadins of Veal with Marsala); Le Boeuf sauté Bourguignonne (Beef Bourguignon); La Poularde Grand’mère (Chicken Grand-Mere); and Le Kébab d’Agneau grillé (Grilled Shishkebab of Lamb). Served with Les Haricots verts aux Amandes (String Beans with Almonds), Le Riz Pilaff aux Champignons (Rice Pilaff with Mushrooms) and La Salade panachée (Mixed Salad). Preceded by selected hors d’oeuvre, of course, and Brochette of Scampi sauteed in butter and lemon. And winding up with cheeses, cake with liqueurs, choice fruits and freshly-brewed coffee, Sanka or tea.
15