We re ready to help
Point is, all you have to do is get an idea of what you’d like to do, where you’d like to go. Then let your Pan Am travel counselor or authorized Travel Agent do the work. Either of us will be happy to suggest ways of including maximum delights in your trip. Ways to make your travel budget stretch. Things to see and do that otherwise might not occur to you. Find you just the right accommodations.
We’ll also be happy to relieve you of all the details. Flight, hotel and car-rental reservations. Theatre and special events tickets. Transfers. All the arrangements that add up to a smooth-running trip.
Keep in mind that most of your Travel Agent’s services cost you nothing extra. In fact, chances are he can help save you money. As well as a bushel of bothersome details. This is your vacation, remember. Take it easy. Let Pan Am and your travel agent do the work. That’s what we’re here for.
Pay now or later
Save up ahead — or pay later instead. Makes no difference to Pan Am. And we can give you all kinds of easy ways to pay the fare. For instance, you can charge everything on your Air Travel Card. Or pay in monthly installments with your American Express Credit Card. Or our pay-later plan. You’ll find your local bank will be happy to discuss travel loans — at terms you’ll discover are easier than you might expect. You decide what’s best for you. Just don’t lose out on the chance to get to Europe now just because
you don’t want to dip into your cash reserves. Handle it the easy pay-later way instead.
Passports
Getting your passport is a simple “do it yourself’’ project. You apply in person for it — in Miami, New Orleans, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Chicago, Washington, D.C., Boston or New York at the Passport Agency of the Department of State, and in other areas at the Clerk’s office of the Federal Court.
Take proof of citizenship with you — a birth certificate, expired passport or baptismal certificate (or a notorized affidavit of your birth vouched for by someone who has known you for a long time). Also two front-view passport pictures 2V2" to 3" square on a white background. Cost is $10 or $11, depending on handling fee, for an individual or family traveling together. Your passport is valid for three years, and renewable for an additional two years at $5.
Apply well ahead of time. It can take two weeks for your passport to be issued. Play safe and allow a month if you can.
As soon as you receive your passport, sign it. And keep it on your person at all times — NOT in your luggage.
Canadian citizens may obtain passport applications from any Post Office or a travel agency. Applications may be submitted by mail and must include the signature of a “guarantor” plus two photos taken within the past 12 months (2" x 21//', front, head and shoulders). Standard fee is $5, and at least two weeks should be allowed.
A few countries in Europe still require visas. So check. Pan Am is abreast of entry requirements, and can advise you if you need visas. If so, you simply apply with your passport at the nearest consulate of the country or countries concerned.
5