happy vintage festivals in Spain, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Greece, France. The Oktoberfest in Munich. The gay Cannstatt Folk Festival in Stuttgart.
To help you pick out specific events that will give you the most pleasure, see the current edition of Pan Am’s detailed annual “Calendar of Overseas Events” — available free at Pan Am offices and Travel Agents. A superb directory to hundreds of events throughout Europe — arranged by names, dates and places. And covering just about any pleasure or business interest you may have:
Sports, the arts and sciences, business and trade shows, the professions, religious, music and folk festivals, commemorations, bridge tourneys, chess matches, countless unique events you might not otherwise hear about in advance.
Famous restaurants and clubs
Let’s face it. Food can be one of life’s greatest pleasures. And in Europe you’ll find some of the finest restaurants and gastronomical delights in the world.
Save the dieting until you get back home. And you’ll also miss a great deal if you make a point of seeking out familiar foods exclusively. Plain steak tastes about the same the world over — but French cuisine is at its best in France .. . German cuisine finest in Germany, and so on. Try something different!
Perhaps the present renaissance of gourmet cookery
at home has given you a sense of the true excitement and adventure in food. In Europe, ask for the specialties of the house — solicit the maitre d’s recommendations— try local wines and liqueurs rather than what you’re used to at home.
Let Pan Am’s NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE be your mentor on restaurants and clubs. (See how to get your copy under “What’s the weather like?” on page 6.) You’ll find detailed discussions of famed and lesser-known eating places — posh as well as moderately priced establishments — wherever you’ll be. As well as an indication of costs. And suggested appropriate amounts to tip. Suggestion: be content with the customary Continental breakfast of coffee and croissants. Luncheon and dinner are bound to be elaborate, multi-course menus that will more than make up for the bacon and eggs you may miss in the morning.
See your Pan Am Travel Agent
While a lot more than dreaming goes into getting a trip off the ground, most of it can be done for you — by your Travel Agent.
He’ll save you a great deal of time during the preparation phase ... and make the mechanics of the trip itself run incredibly smoothly. Freeing you to exert all your energies on having fun.
Your Pan Am authorized travel agent is a professional who makes his living by seeing that people get where they want to go ... stay where they want to stay ... do everything they want to do — and spend just what they had in mind.
And remember, many of the services he provides cost you nothing. Travel Agents work on a commission basis — paid not by you but by the firms they are authorized to represent. Besides Pan Am, your authorized travel agent is affiliated with many transportation, hotel and tour organizations throughout the world. Your pleasure is his business. So be assured he’ll place you where your wishes and needs dictate.
11