Things you won t want to miss
Since there’s no telling when you’ll pass this way again, you’ll want to try to see as much as you can of the “musts.” The treasures you’ve always read about, heard people talk about, seen pictures of. The remains of the Greek and Roman civilizations. Medieval art and architecture. The royal trappings in London and The Hague. There’s really no substitute for being there yourself, for seeing with your own eyes, for the dawning realization of the problems and true attainments of our forefathers in centuries past.
But save as much time as possible for your special interests. If you’re a lively one, perhaps you’ll aim at the skiing and winter sports carnivals in Switzerland, Austria, Scandinavia, Germany — throughout central and northern Europe. The topflight jazz at Menotti’s “Festival of Two Worlds” at Spoleto in Italy’s Umbria Province in midsummer, or the earlier International Festival of Jazz in Paris. In Ireland, there’s Gaelic football, horse racing and dog shows. There’s dancing in the Paris streets to gay music punctured by fireworks on Bastille Day (July 14). Or join the crowds at the Grand Prix Auto Races at Le Mans in June, the Royal Regatta at Henley on the Thames, the International Auto Show at Paris in the Fall — Europe’s greatest. And don’t overlook the Grand National Steeplechase at Liverpool in March.
If your loves are music and the theatre, how about a winter stay in Italy for some of the concert and opera
season ... the ballet and concert season at Monte Carlo? Or the International Music and Drama Festival in Vienna with the famed Philharmonic Orchestra, Vienna Boys Choir and noted theatrical companies performing at Schonbrunn Palace. The International May Festival of Opera, Ballet and Concerts at Weis-baden, Germany. The Annual Beethoven Festival at Bonn, also in May. Other theatricals of interest: The ancient Greek classics performed in their original historic settings at the Festival of Drama and Comedy at Epidaurus — Shakespeare at Stratford-on-Avon — the renowned Hamlet Festival at Elsinore in Denmark.
Get a jump on the fashion world by wangling an invitation to the haute couture showings in Paris in February.
You may want to be in Rome, the Eternal City, at Easter Time. Or at the Seville Easter Fair in Spain, a weeklong series of dancing, religious parades and bullfighting. Or for a really different Easter, fly to Northern Norway and watch the colorful Lapp wedding season.
Cheerful festivals everywhere, all year long. The Carnival of Street Urchins throughout Denmark in February. The Fete of Saint Bernadette at Lourdes. The Mid-Lent festivities throughout France. The folklore doings in Spain and Portugal.
Take in the Annual Spring Fair at Graz, Austria. Participate in the Midsummer Eve and Midsummer Day weekend all over Scandinavia in late June. Visit Dubrovnik in July for the Summer Festival held out-of-doors amidst medieval fortresses and palaces. Or Siena, for impressive weeklong medieval horse races cheered on by costumed townspeople.
Irresistible, too, are the annual Art and Antique Dealers Fair in Delft’s historic Prinsenhof Museum and Venice’s traditional Regatta and Night Festival, both held in August.
One of the leading cultural events is the International Festival of Music and Drama at Edinburgh in late summer — world-renowned symphony orchestras, soloists, dancers and performers. Near the same time enjoy the picturesque Highland Gathering of the Clans at Braemar. To the Continent in the fall for the
10