What's the weather like?
Pretty much as it is almost everywhere else. Changeable. Never really hot, even in midsummer, to the north. Never really cold, even in midwinter, on the Italian boot and the Mediterranean Islands.
One convenient way to get your weather eye out is with a copy of Pan Am’s NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. You’ll want a copy of this invaluable travel aid anyway. It gives you authentic, up-to-the-minute information on the things you’ll want to see, do, shop for and wear around Europe — in 109 lands around the world, in fact.
To help you aim toward blue and sunny skies, it provides a weather chart with each country’s separate chapter. Each shows high, low and average temperatures throughout all 12 months of the year, plus usual amounts of rainfall. Pick up your copy of NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE at your nearest Pan Am office — only $2. (Slightly higher in bookstores.)
How to
get around the continent
Just about as you like. Familiar Pan Am Jet Clippers will fly you to each European city — 27 in all. For others try at least one of Europe’s famed trains — as “crack” as they’re cracked up to be. Add a boat trip or two for another change of pace. To cross the Dover Straits, perhaps. Or cruise the Rhine, the Danube, the Italian or Yugoslav coastline. Or the Norwegian fjords, for what must be the most spectacular scenery on earth.
How to get around the cities
Shank’s mare is still the best way to find what you’re looking for within a mile or so of your hotel, if you’ve the time. And when you’re going farther afield, taxi
fares are reasonable. But treat your holiday budget and your sense of adventure to something special. Try the buses, the metros, the undergrounds — the transportation your hosts use abroad. Study the line’s route maps. Know where you’re going. Then just take off. For impromptu fun, reserve an afternoon — hop aboard — ride a couple of miles — then work back afoot, making off-the-beaten-track discoveries in every block. In most countries, public transportation systems are very similar to those on this side of the Atlantic.
Don’t neglect walking as a means of really seeing Europe’s cities ... or countryside, for that matter. Even in the busiest cities, you’ll soon catch on to the knack of crossing busy intersections by imitating native pedestrians. “When in Rome, —”.
7