Time to pack
Weightlessness wants to be one word for your luggage. Sturdiness another; could be lots of manhandling ahead. Within limits, your duds fly free with you: 66 pounds First Class, 44 pounds Economy. (Where connecting domestic airlines are involved, you’ll want to check their luggage limits, which may vary somewhat.)
You’ll find it easiest and most economical to travel light. But there’s no law that says you must. You can always ship more ahead via Pan Am Clipper Cargo, if you like. Or if you’re just a little over, you may prefer to pay the universal excess baggage rate: 1% of the first class adult fare each way per 2.2 pounds.
No need to bow out of the “best-dressed” list because you stay within the free limit, however. Two or more in your party? One (or several) of you can be overweight in luggage provided you’re balanced out by someone sufficiently under the limit.
And many over-your-arm items aren’t weighed: Coat, umbrella, personal-type camera, binoculars, lady’s handbag, reading matter for flight, baby’s food and carrying basket. (These items are weighed, though: overnight bag, cosmetic case, hat box, briefcase, portable typewriter, professional-type camera.)
Climate where you’re going and what you’ll be doing govern what you’ll be taking. Your itinerary involves wide temperature variations and every conceivable activity? Still no problem. Today’s synthetics give you wonderful wardrobe variety, especially if you concentrate on a harmonizing color scheme and
mix-and-match items. Clothing you can dunk and drip dry yourself is most convenient — dry cleaning can be time-consuming, costly and a nuisance when you’re on the go.
There’s probably nothing you’ll need more than a pair of really comfortable, well-broken-in walking shoes. Unless it’s an adapter for an electric shaver or travel iron. Electric current varies throughout Europe, however. If you’ll be encountering more than 220 A.C. (check with us or your Travel Agent), consider returning to blades, and the old trick of hanging out wardrobe wrinkles in bathroom steam, for the duration.
If you’re doing much beaching, you’ll need more swim and play togs than suggested below. To lighten your load, let your cover-up double as nightrobe, sandals as slippers, swimcap as shower cap, etc.
Unless you’ve a strictly formal “event” on your particular agenda, you can dispense with evening clothes. A cocktail dress and a dark business suit will take a couple practically anywhere in Europe without anyone’s feeling conspicuous.
No matter what you’ve heard about some European hotels, don’t bother cluttering up your luggage with lots of bath soap, facial or toilet tissues, etc. If you need these items, you can pick them up in drugstores everywhere for little if any more than you’d pay at home. And have all that suitcase room for something really important. Suggested take-alongs for several weeks abroad . ..
12