jfor SAND, SEA, SUN and
You can travel the world over, but you’ll never find another spot more charming — more relaxing than Bermuda. Remote enough to be unspoiled, and British enough to be different, Bermuda will fulfill your highest expectations.
Here you’ll find peace ... in the warmth of Bermuda’s sunshine ... in the quiet lap of its blue waters ... in the secluded coves of its coral beaches. Here you’ll find beauty ... in the flash of white-washed roofs against the sky ... in its fields of tropical flowers . . . along its oleander-hedged roads. And here you’ll find friends . . . companions for your leisure hours . . . partners in your quest for pleasure.
For the athletic side of your nature, you’ll find every facility at your finger tips. For in Bermuda’s 22 square miles, there are broad sand beaches and warm clear waters for swimming or sunning. There are carefully
kept tennis courts, ana fainfous golf courses where you can survey the oWan a£/you tee off. There’s harbor sailing and ocean racing — and fishing for the sportiest game fish in the world.
For sights to see, you’ll hire a bike, an open, horse-drawn carriage or one of the tiny English-made taxis and roll along to the Aquarium, and the Devil’s Hole, to meet aquatic friends. Or you’ll go off to Crystal or Leamington Cave ... to the sea gardens ... or to historic St. George, the colony’s charming oldest town. You’ll shop for British treasures there or in the Hamilton waterfront shops . . . visit Tom Moore’s tavern . . . and see the smallest drawbridge in the world at Somerset. You’ll eat as you’ve never eaten before . . . you’ll dance under the brightest stars you’ve ever seen . . . and you’ll vow that you’ll come back to Bermuda.
Shopping for souvenirs can be rare fun in St. George and in Hamiltons waterfront shops. Here you’ll find everything from English antiques to Bermuda doeskin—with a wide and unique variety in between.
You’ll revel in the flowers of Bermuda with lilies, oleanders, hibiscus, poinsettias, and bougainvillea blossoming on all sides.
again
kindley field
The golfing facilities are excellent in Bermuda, whether you prefer 9 or 18 holes. And the Mid-Ocean Club course is recognized as one of the four finest in the Western Hemisphere.	/S
MAP BY DERWINSKJ
*¡SS*8Í¿?S
dockyard
ard a horfe'drawn carriage and ha c<mg° sightseeing by day to the tu perhaps, a romantic moonlit drive
HAMILTON Wy
NAVAL BASE
Leamington Cave ojfers fascination that time and nature has wrought — in an assortment of stalactites and stalagmites. Don’t miss this unusual visit to the “underworld .
»«■*»**.
err^uda _ eeyrl00kii sPecial
A tri-cycle built for two over Bermuda. Here is to take pictures en rout