You'll find plenty of room to relax in your spacious Clipper cabin.
Full-course meals are served fresh and hot from the Clipper’s spotless galley.
7. ,
glorious days in Bermuda . . .
You step from your Clipper refreshed and relaxed — ready to enjoy all the excitement Bermuda has in store.
Its N
ennuda
by CLIPPER
Going and coming, Clipper is a wonderful way to travel. Flights are smooth —- with never any sensation of height or speed — no trouble with weather, because you fly above it all the way. Pan American is not only the World’s Most Experienced Airline ... it has the most years of experience in flying to Bermuda.
You’ll find the big Constellation-type Clippers luxuriously appointed, with plenty of room in the cabin to move about. Your lounge chair is deep-cushioned, relaxing. And attentive stewardesses see to your every want, as well as serving you hot meals and snacks prepared in the spotless galley. In addition; you’ll find congenial friends among your fellow passengers, for more and more people every day are discovering that the best way to Bermuda is by comfortable Pan American Clipper.
Your Choice of Service
Best of all, between New York and Bermuda, Clipper rates are low — with your choice all year ’round of either the daily De Luxe Flight — round trip in a Constellation Clipper — for only $99 plus tax ... or the Tourist Flight — round trip in giant DC-4’s for only $85, tax extra. And these same rates apply from Atlantic City, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Washington, and Wilmington, Del., with passage to New York provided by connecting airlines. As a matter of fact, from most principal cities, Pan American, with the cooperation of leading domestic airlines, offers you a special 30-day through excursion rate to Bermuda — including pre-arranged transfer to your Bermuda-bound Clipper at New York.
See your Travel Agent
Let your travel agent suggest where to stay, and what to do in Bermuda, without exceeding your vacation budget. He knows the answers, and best of all, his advice costs you nothing extra. See him soon.
for little more than $100!
Here’s the kind of holiday you’ve dreamed about — but never thought possible. Now it can be yours ... 7 unforgettable days and 6 starlit nights in beautiful Bermuda ... a holiday with just about everything provided. You get round-trip transportation to Bermuda from New York by Clipper Tourist Service with delicious meals in flight, and transportation from the airport in Bermuda to your hotel. Accommodations are Bermuda Plan, which includes breakfast but leaves you free to lunch and dine wherever fancy takes you. You enjoy sunning, swimming or just plain relaxation in a vacation paradise. And the low, inclusive rate for all this is little more than $100. See your travel agent for full details of the Bermuda Holiday Plan.
Pan American operates swift, luxurious Constellation-type Clippers on daily Bermuda flights. PAA also pioneered low-cost Tourist Service to Bermuda, now flown in giant DCU-type Clippers.