An absolutely First Class idea
From the earliest days of aviation, Pan Am has been an innovator, pioneering new passenger and cargo routes. Improving or introducing new aircraft and equipment.
Or simply upgrading the kind of service we give our passengers. We realized that certain travelers have special needs, and we introduced First Class service for them. Over the years we built a reputation on it.
Now, in response to the changing needs and tastes of our passengers, and the development of new and often longer air routes, we offer a new kind of First Class comfort on our long range 747SP aircraft, keeping in mind the unique requirements of today’s differenJH traveler. And quite simply, we want it to be the best in the air.
Elegant as they each maybe, however, the service, comfort, and attention to detail in Pan Am’s new 747SP First Class service are not mere indulgences. They are tailored for the tastes of experienced travelers who understand that flying is not just a means of getting from one point to another, but rather an integral part of the journey which can enhance the entire travel experience. For them, we are pleased to introduce a service unique to Pan Am: the last word in First Class service.
1
STRETCH OUT. Our newSleeperetter seats on 747SP flights are a breakthrough in comfort at no extra charge. They recline to 60 degrees for reading, enjoying stereo music, or getting a good night’s sleep. With cushioned footrests and extra leg room, you travel in uncrowded, restful comfort. So you arrive refreshed and relaxed, ready to get the most out of your trip.
DINING CHEZ PAN AM. First Class dining is elegant on Pan Am, with gourmet food served in courses on fine china, to be savored in the warm ambience of soft, comfortable chairs, and intimate yet spacious seating. Passengers may choose to dine in private, or in our optional table-for-two arrangement.
FIRSTCLASS FARE. Menus in Pan Am First Class feature superb international cuisine. One of the finest restaurants you visit on your trip might possibly be ours.