International Requirements and Agreements
Awake already?
That’s good, because breakfast will be served soon, and we’ll be landing in Paris a little later. Meanwhile, I can tell you something about what has gone before between our government, and that of France, to make it possible for us to make this trip across the ocean and put down at the airport just outside Paris.
To operate an international air line, it isn’t enough just to have airplanes, flight crews, ground crews, fuel, oil and the other physical things that go to make up scheduled air transportation. You need something else that is basic to international air transportation, and that is the permission to land at your destination.
Each nation has sovereignty over the land within its boundaries. Most of the land is owned by citizens of the country, but the government has final authority where the rights and welfare of all the people of the country are concerned, or in other words, it exercises sovereignty. This extends to everything under the ground, and to the airspace over the ground. And it means that France can grant us, or deny us, the right to bring our aircraft across the French border and land on French territory. The same is true in reverse — the French need permission to fly to the United States and land. And the situation is the same between any and all countries of the world.
Landing rights for international scheduled air service are negotiated by the foreign departments of the governments — the Department of State in the case of the United States. Very often, the agreements are reached on a reciprocal basis, that is my country and yours agree that I may fly to your country X times per week, and you, in turn, may fly to my country the same number of times per week. A country which sees no prospect that it will establish its own air service may grant permission for others to come in without asking for reciprocal rights in return, but as matters stand today, the larger nations do have their own air services, and are unwilling to grant landing rights without receiving landing rights in return.
An American flag line also needs something else — a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity issued by the Civil Aeronautics Board, which is a U.S. Government agency. Such certificates are issued for domestic air lines (lines operating entirely within the borders of the United States) by the Board itself. Certificates for international operations, since they involve relationships with other countries, are issued only with the approval of the President.
The U.S. Government exercises this authority over the matter of what air line is to fly over what route for two reasons: (1) So that the Government can be sure the air line is qualified to render service efficiently and safely, (2) So that the whole air line network, as operated by all U. S. air lines, will be economically sound — so that insofar as regulation can make it so, there will be enough service to meet the needs and desires of the public, that there will be enough competition between different companies to promote good service, but not so much competition that there will be wasteful duplications.
Still another thing is involved in this landing we’re about to make in Paris. It involves us directly as arriving passengers, and it arises out of sovereignty, just as the matter of landing rights arises from sovereignty.
As soon as we leave the airplane, we have to be checked out by a public health officer, an immigrations officer, and a customs officer. The reasons for this, of course, are, in the case of health, to guard against the introduction of disease from other countries. The immigrations people are interested, because it is the countries’ right and privilege to say who may visit, under what terms and for how long a stay. The customs people are responsible for seeing that articles prohibited entry are not brought in, and that if we wish to bring in articles upon which duty must be paid, that we do in fact pay the amounts due.
And we’re going to be greeted by the public health, immigrations and customs people in a very few minutes, because we’ve been approaching Paris at nine miles a minute, and if you’ll look out the window, you’ll see the airport.
Have fun in Paris. I’ll see you again on the airplane when we leave for Beirut.
THINGS TO DO
1.	Ask a pilot to visit your class to explain some landing problems, such as those caused by weather conditions, wind direction and speed, and radio facilities available. If he has flown abroad, you might ask him to tell you about special rules that apply to flights in the countries he visits.
2.	Make a collection and display as many different types of model aircraft as the class members can bring to school. Learn the uses of the types of aircraft.
18