SYRIA



Dver the
The long air line flights are not all over water. The very longest ones are, but some overland flights are in the 2,000 to 3,000 mile class, and the non-stop service coast to coast in the U.S.A. is an example. The mileage from New York to Los Angeles is 2,446.
The longest overland air line flight is between Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and Caracas, Venezuela, a distance of 2,821 miles directly over the rain forests (jungles) of central Brazil and southern Venezuela.
Another long one is this Beirut-Karachi portion of our flight around the world. The air line distance is 1,995 miles.
On this flight we pass over Syria, and see Damascus, which is the oldest city in the world. We fly over Iraq, and go past Baghdad but probably won’t see it — it likely will be over the horizon to our left. We may see the northerly part of the Persian Gulf, and we’ll definitely fly over the southern part of Iran, cut across the westerly tip of Pakistan, proceed a few miles over the Arabian Sea and land at Karachi, the capital of Pakistan.
There is something especially interesting about this flight. Here is the Captain, and I’ll let him explain:
CAPTAIN:
“Yes, there is something special for the flight crew. Practically all of it is over land, but it’s mostly over the desert, and for all the help you can get from landmarks, you might almost as well be over the ocean.
“There are a few spots to look for. You’ll find a few town names on the map. Where there is a little water there is an oasis, it has a name, and we can spot it from the air. But on most of the ocean flights you have a little island once in a while.
“So flying this route is very much like flying the ocean.
“When we first started flying it the resemblance was even closer. Thé navigation procedures were just about the same. We laid out a course on the map and followed it by dead reckoning. We checked this by shooting the stars. We had some help from long range radio direction finders.
“It’s a little different now. We have radio aids spotted along the route, and we can follow the airway from one radio station to the other. But there still is a great similarity between flying the desert and flying the ocean.”
22
Has this desert been explored and mapped?
CAPTAIN:
“Yes. There are trade routes across it for camel trains, and there are maps which are as good as the cartographers can make them. But where the hills are sand, and move around like waves on the ocean, you can’t put them on a map. A wave changes its position in seconds where a sand dune moves over a period of weeks or months, but that’s no help to the map maker.
“There probably are oil fields down there that never have been tapped. On one flight I had a petroleum engineer aboard as a passenger. He kept watching out the window, and making notes every once in a while. Told me he was looking for spots which looked promising — spots where it might be worth while to explore, first with an airplane taking aerial pictures, and then a crew on the ground with all the equipment used for finding oil.”
Do you like flying on this route, Captain?
CAPTAIN:
“Sure, l like it. But 1 just like to fly, and this one isn’t really so much different from any other. Once you leave the ground, anywhere, you’re in the ocean of air. True, the landmarks you look for are different, when you have landmarks. Prevailing weather differs from one place to another. Flying in the United States, or Europe and some other places, there are more aids to air navigation provided on the ground. But to a large extent, those aids to air navigation are there to control the traffic. More airplanes are flying on the airway, and it is necessary to keep them separated from each other. Out here, with less traffic, it’s easier for the few of us to look out for each other.
“The way things are now, airplanes can go anywhere — so long as there is a place to land when they get there. And fast, too. The air line doesn’t take you around the world in 45 hours. That can be done, and has been done by the Air Force with B-52 jet bombers. Flying the air line you take a little longer, and you stop at various places to get acquainted. And when we have ’Round-the-World jet service, the passenger air time ’round the world will be about the same as the record time of the jet bombers.”
Photo: Ewing Galloway