We are flying this time from Tokyo, Japan to Wake Island for a fuel stop, and then to Honolulu in the Hawaiian Islands.
Wake Island, until 1935, was without any human residents. It was well known to mariners, but hadn’t much interest for them, except as a landmark. To the pioneers of air transportation across the Pacific, it had great interest, because it provided a base for a fuel stop on the first trans-Pacific air route, a base set up by Pan American World Airways in preparation for the inauguration of service in 1935.
Later, the Marine Corps established a garrison on Wake, and the gallant but unsuccessful defense of the island by the Marines at the time of Pearl Harbor is one of the thrilling stories of World War II in the Pacific.
Today, Wake is a busy air route way-station with commercial and military airplanes coming and going day and night. An airport ranking in size and activity with the airports of the biggest cities, it has dispatchers, air traffic controllers, weather observers, radio operators and mechanics stationed there by the air lines, the Civil Aeronautics Administration and the military to provide the services which make trans-Pacific air service possible. But, most visitors disembark at Wake only for the hour or so needed to service an airplane, and then continue their journey, as we do.
Proceeding eastward, toward Honolulu, we come to the International Date Line, at the 180th Meridian. The moment we pass over the International Date Line travelling eastbound, today changes to yesterday. Westbound the opposite would be true — today would become tomorrow.
Shall we explore this matter of the International Date Line, Time Zones and the difference in time of day around the world?
We say that the earth rotates on its axis once in twenty-four hours. More accurately, we could say that we have divided the time interval of the earth’s rotation into twenty-four equal parts and called them hours, making the hour a basic unit in the measurement of time.
As for the earth’s surface, we long ago adopted another system of measurement, based upon the 360 degrees of a circle.
We imagine that a line is drawn around the middle of the earth, equally distant from the North and South Poles, and call it the equator. The equator is a circle, having 360 degrees, and as the earth
rotates, the apparent movement of the sun from east to west, in one hour, amounts to one twenty-fourth of 360 degrees, or 15 degrees. This is the basis for the division of the earth’s surface into time zones.
Time zones begin with the zero Meridian, which is another imaginary line on the surface of the earth passing from the North Pole, through Greenwich, England and going on to the South Pole. This line also is called the Greenwich Meridian, and sometimes the Prime Meridian.
Now we add other meridians, or lines from the North Pole to the South Pole, the first one passing 15 degrees to the east of the Zero Meridian, the next one 30 degrees, the next 45 and so on until we are half way around the world and come to 180 degrees, and that is the International Date Line. Then we go back to Greenwich and mark off meridians again, 15 degrees west, 30 degrees west and so on until we have proceeded half way around the world again and arrive at 180 degrees west, which is identical with 180 degrees east, and, once again, is the International Date Line.
This may be visualized as a pealed orange with 24 segments, the lines between segments corresponding to the meridians at 15 degree intervals.
Each meridian is the center line of a time zone, which extends l^/> degrees to either side. The difference in time is one hour from each time zone to the next. If it is noon at the Zero Meridian, then the time at 15 degrees east is plus one, or 1:00 P.M. At 15 degrees west the time is minus one, or 11:00 A.M. Proceeding around the world again until we come to 180 degrees, we find the difference is twelve hours. At 180 degrees it is midnight.
The day is considered to begin at 180 degrees — the International Date Line, and to move around the globe from east to west. So let’s go on from midnight at the International Date Line. It’s a second past midnight and a new day is starting. With the passage of an hour, and the rotation of the earth meanwhile, it becomes a second past midnight 15 degrees to the west (at the 165° East Meridian). After two hours, midnight has moved another 15 degrees (to the 150° East Meridian). Hour by hour midnight moves around the world, after 24 hours it has reached the International Date Line again, and another day starts.
What happens to our day, then, when we arrive from Wake at the
26