à
0 ^HONOLULU
4^
V
ò
^ ÌSLANOS
China Clipp
Flying from Honolulu to San Francisco we travel on the route which was opened to scheduled air line service in November 1935 by one of the world’s famous airplanes, the China Clipper, which started out westbound, of course, from San Francisco to Honolulu, then went on to complete the first scheduled air line flight across the Pacific via Midway, Wake and Guam to Manila, P.I.
The distance between Hawaii and the mainland is 2,400 miles, a long over water flight even by today’s standards, although so much a routine matter that dozens of aircraft make the journey every day.
In 1935, it was both long and formidable. It had been flown by adventurous pioneers, and it had been surveyed by a Pan American flight crew in a Sikorsky S-42 flying boat, which was easily capable of making the journey with a full crew, but which had no weight to spare for payload when fully loaded with fuel.
China Clipper was the first long range airplane capable of making so long a flight with mail, passengers and cargo. The Glenn L. Martin Co. built the China Clipper, an M-130 flying boat, and there were two sister aircraft — the Hawaii Clipper and the Philippine Clipper.
Techniques of long-range over water flying had been developed in Pan American’s operations in the Caribbean area. Over water flights of some length were made there in regular service, and the problems of navigation, radio communication and radio direction finding were tackled there, and procedures worked out in preparation for the long flights over the Pacific.
Experimental and test flights from Pan American’s base at Miami, Florida, included also flights which simulated San Francisco-Hono-lulu, in that the crews flew a comparable distance without ever seeing land, but by flying 1,200 miles out over the ocean and then 1,200 miles back to Miami.
When the time arrived on November 22, 1935 for the first scheduled flight across the Pacific from San Francisco, Postmaster General James A. Farley was on hand to hand over the mail bags to Captain Edwin C. Musick — this first flight was with mail only. Both sides of San Francisco Bay were lined with people, hundreds of thousands of them, to see China Clipper take off from the water of the bay, head over the Golden Gate Bridge and start off across the Pacific.
China Clipper completed that flight without incident, continued over the rest of the route with the first trans-Pacific mail for Guam and Manila, and then returned with inbound mail. That began a weekly trans-Pacific service operated by the three Martin boats, to Manila, and later to Hong Kong.
China Clipper could fly from Honolulu to San Francisco, with eight or ten passengers, plus mail and cargo, in about 20 hours. Super 7 Clippers (Douglas DC7-C’s) make the flight in 81/) hours with 75 passengers. By Jet Clipper the time will be 4% hours, the passenger capacity 96 to 174 — in various services. All this within the space of about thirty years!
* * *
As for our own flight around the world, we’ve just about completed it now. Our landing at San Francisco International Airport puts us back on mainland U.S.A. The final leg is a domestic air line flight across country to our starting point in New York City.
The route we now have completed is but one possibility for flying around the world.
For example, we might start from San Francisco, travel on the Polar Route, via Frobisher Bay, to London, and then continue on the route of the Aviation’s One World narrative. Or we could travel by way of Frankfurt, Germany, instead of Paris and Rome. Or we could work out a route via Mexico, Central and South America and Africa. There are 37 published Pan Am round the world routes! These include eastbound, plus westbound routes.
An intriguing possibility for the future could be realized when and if aircraft can fly at 1,000 miles an hour continuously for 24 hours. Such an airplane, traveling westbound, could cross a time zone every hour, turn back the clock every hour, and return to its starting point at exactly the time of take-off!
On the same day? No, on the next day, because the date would change from today to tomorrow upon crossing the International Date Line.
28
