At The
Ready to go? You have your passport? Ticket? You have just 44 pounds of baggage? That’s good. — On The President Special you could take 66, but since you’ll be traveling Rainbow later on, it’s best to start off this way — so you won’t be paying for excess baggage.
Put your bags on the scale and hand your ticket and passport to Mr. Trafford, the Traffic Agent.
MR. TRAFFORD:
“Hello, there —
“Passport OK. And ticket OK. I’ll put tags on your baggage and here are yo^, baggage checks.
“Where do you want to sit?
“We assi^ii the seats and attach a tag to your ticket showing your seat number. There you are — seat 4A, and that’s a window seat, so you can see very well.
“That’s all. Your flight is 114 departing at 1900, which is 7 p.m. You’ll board about 6:45 p.m.
“You have plenty of time. Want to look around the airport?”
* * *
Airport
Well, let’s do look around the airport.
The International Airport at Idlewild is one of the biggest in the world; its runways are each about two miles long. The drive from the Belt Parkway up the roadway to Terminal City takes about five minutes. Terminal City is the collection of buildings housing the departure areas of the various air lines, the International Arrivals Building, the Cargo Terminal and other special buildings. There are customs and immigration offices, restaurants, a drug store, hotel rooms and even a bank. The big hangars and shops provide for servicing of a hundred or more aircraft at one time.
Airplanes are coming and going at all hours of the day and night. On the concrete ramp in front of the Cargo Terminal right now is a DC-6A all-cargo Clipper taking aboard a load of cargo, some of which will be delivered as far away as India.
Being a passenger aboard a big airliner is a thrilling experience. But remember that cargo and air mail are equally important to the business of air transportation and trade of all the countries which make up our “One World.”
Some Clippers carry cargo only, and such planes carry more than thirteen tons of boxes and packages. Passenger Clippers also carry cargo and mail. An endless list of products has taken to the air, including such things as baby chicks, orchids, tropical fish, penicillin and other medicines, large and small machines and machine parts, even furniture. A new hotel in the Caribbean had all its equipment and furniture shipped by Clipper — twenty-two plane loads of it. And the cost was lower than it would have been by any other shipping method.
THINGS TO DO
1.	In aviation magazines you can find pictures of cargo planes. If you paste them in a scrapbook, you may wish to write a paragraph or two under each picture telling how and why you think the cargo is being shipped by air.
2.	You can design a new airport for your town or one of the cities mentioned in this booklet by constructing a model. Include administration building, control tower, hangars, runways, automobile parking areas and other buildings you may see at the airport or believe are necessary. Model planes purchased from your hobby shop can be used on the airport to make your model complete.
4