We chose to make the first leg of our trip around Aviation’s One World, the flight from New York to Paris, on The President Special, and change at Paris to the Rainbow, or Tourist class for the flight on to Rome and Beirut.
There are three basic types of service in international air transportation, with varying degrees of comfort and luxury, and with different fare levels: First Class (President), Tourist (Rainbow) and Economy Class (Thrift Fares). Over the Atlantic, there is a deluxe first class service, The President Special, for which an extra fare is charged, and which is operated twice daily — one going to London and the other to Paris. It was the latter that we selected for the trans-Atlantic flight of this book. There is also a President Special to South America.
Two different services frequently are combined on one airplane. Where this is done, the seating arrangement is called “dual configuration.”
Where dual configuration is used on the 707 Jet Clippers, the Rainbow passengers, or the Thrift passengers, occupy the rear part of the passenger cabin, and there is a bulkhead separating the section
PARIS
FRANCE I;*'
Clipper
aft from the first class section forward. On the propeller-driven Clippers, the first class passengers occupy the rear section and the Rainbow or Thrift passengers occupy the forward section.
Another term used in connection with the different classes of air line service is “high density seating.” In tourist class there are more seats in a given area than in first class — this is high density seating. In economy class, the seating arrangement enables still more passengers to occupy a given area.
In one of the photographs two side by side seats are illustrated. Note the roominess — there is room for the chess board between the two passengers. In the other photograph, a grouping of three seats is illustrated — not quite so much room, but still a comfortable arrangement, and one especially suitable when three are travelling together.
The diagrams show how seats are arranged in pairs on either side of the aisle, or with three on each side. Further variation is possible in the fore and aft spacing of seats — in the President type of seating they are farther from the seats in front of them than in Rainbow or economy class Thrift Service.
It is this seating arrangement, plus other factors, which accounts