Some of your fellow passengers have arrived ahead of you. We took so long watching the loading of the DC-6A and the pre-flight conference that you were not first in line, as we had intended you to be. But it doesn’t matter, because there’s a seat reserved for you. Mr. Trafford put a tag on your ticket assigning you to Seat 4A, remember?
You don’t have to think about baggage. That was checked when the ticket was examined at the counter. The baggage check is stapled to the ticket and your bags will be delivered at the airport in Paris.
The aircraft for this flight is the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper.
The picture shows only a few of your fellow passengers. Altogether, there are 111 passengers on your flight, 40 of them in the President Special compartment up forward. That may seem like a lot of people for one airplane, but the Clipper is so huge that there is plenty of room to be comfortable.
The 707 Jet Clipper has two passenger entrance doors, both are on the port, or left, side, one forward of the wing and the other in the rear. Also, there are separate doors for supplying the galleys. They are located on the starboard, or right side, so there is no interference with the passengers boarding.
Well, let’s follow the other passengers up the steps and meet our Stewardess. Hello Miss Stanley.
MISS STANLEY:
“ Welcome aboard.
“You have Seat 4A — that’s in the fourth row; the window seat on the left.
‘I’ll take your coat and hat as soon as all the passengers are seated.”
* * *
We’re all aboard — the door has been closed and the ramp crew has rolled away the steps.
On the pad, above the seat in front of us an electrically lighted sign says “Please fasten seat belts — No Smoking.”
On the flight deck forward, the Captain is talking over the radio telephone with the airport traffic control tower. He tells the controller he is ready to depart, and asks that a take-off time be assigned.
This is a vital part of the departure pattern. Control is exercised by the tower for all aircraft and other vehicles moving on the ground within the operational area, and for all aircraft in the air leaving or approaching the airport. The controllers are employees of the Civil Aeronautics Administration, which has responsibility for airport traffic control, also airways traffic control for aircraft flying along the airways between terminals.
The controller may give us a take-off time assignment immediately, or he may tell the Captain to stand by for clearance. When he does give clearance, he schedules the take-off at least ten minutes in advance, to give the Captain time to complete his final checkout pattern, and then to taxi to position at the end of the runway.
In the passenger compartment, the signal to us that we are cleared
9