means “This is exactly where we are, at so many hours and minutes, according to my computation of our speed and direction, as influenced by wind direction and velocity.” (2) By electronic means: Using his electronic equipment, the Navigator can get one line on his map showing the direction from the aircraft to one radio station, then another showing the direction to another. The intersection of the two lines gives him a “radio fix”. (3) Celestial navigation: By “shoot-" ing” a star with an octant, and interpreting the celestial sight in terms of his astronomical tables, he gets a “celestial fix”. Using all these methods, the Navigator can always tell the Captain just where he is, so the latter will know what compass heading to use in order to keep on course for the remainder of the journey.
In addition, the Navigator, with the aid of the Flight Engineer, keeps the Howgozit Curve. Actually a collection of curves, in the mathematical sense (they look more like straight lines), the Howgozit Curve gives at any moment during the flight an opportunity for an instantaneous reading on the amount of fuel consumed in comparison with the amount which the flight forecast predicted would be consumed. Also, it gives instantly a forecast of what the fuel situation would be if it suddenly became necessary to return to the take-off point, or to proceed to an alternate airport. In addition, it provides the same information for another contingency — if it is necessary to stop one of the engines and proceed on the power of the other three, Howgozit’s data make it possible for the Navigator to give the Captain immediately a forecast of fuel consumption for the remainder of the flight to the intended destination, back to the point of take-off, or to the alternate airport.
The Flight Engineer, in effect, delivers the power to the Captain.
He watches the engine instrument dials, some of which are duplicates of dials in front of the Captain and First Officer. He reads them at frequent intervals, and makes a record of these readings.
At frequent intervals he reports to the Navigator on fuel consumed, and fuel remaining, for the Howgozit Curve.
The foregoing are suggestive only of his duties, and he has another fairly minor function which you may observe when you fly. If a seat back doesn’t move back as it should,.a closet door insists on swinging open, or something in the galley isn’t operating as it should, the Stewardess calls upon the Flight Engineer, and he comes to her rescue with great good nature.
* * *
I
Round-the-clock, round-the-year and round-the-world operation of scheduled air transport aircraft are possible in the Air Age because of the skills of people. Some of these people are members of the flight crews in the aircraft, many more are fulfilling all-important roles on the ground to provide information, control, servicing and maintenance. Others in ground jobs make reservations, sell tickets, check you in at the airport. There are executives, lawyers, engineers, accountants, clerks and specialists in such fields as advertising and public relations. And every one of these jobs is vital.
But the entire operation revolves around the Captain and his immediate assistants in the cockpit. These crew members have won the right to be there by beginning with outstanding physical and mental characteristics and then by equipping themselves through training