Clipper Maintenance
While a Flying Clipper is in the air, the Flight Engineer has the responsibility for keeping the four engines and all the controls in efficient working order. Another necessary duty of the Flight Engineer is keeping a written log of the performance of each engine and of every other operating part of the airplane. The information the Flight Engineer writes into his log is then used by inspectors and mechanics on the ground in preparing the Clipper for its next flight.
Hundreds of inspections, adjustments and replacements are performed on a regular schedule as the Clipper accumulates flying time.
Engines are interchangeable. Any engine suitable for use in the airplane in which we are making this flight may be installed in any other Clipper of the same model. Spare engines are available at major airports along Clipper routes. For example, should there be need for an engine change in London, the engine will be available and can be installed there. The one that is removed will be sent to an overhaul base for inspection, repair and rebuilding.
If the need for a Jet engine arises at a station which does not keep a spare engine in stock, a spare will be sent speeding toward the grounded airliner, tucked under the wing of the next Jet Clipper traveling along the same route. At a major station, such as New York or London, it is possible to mount a spare engine under the wing of its Jet carrier in about an hour, fly it to where it is needed, remove it there and install it on the grounded airliner.
The “power pod” for transportation of a spare engine is located under the left wing, between the landing gear and the left inboard engine. It closely resembles the nacelles of the four regular engines, but with a bullet-nose front and a boat-tail rear section.
As a matter of routine, an engine usually continues in service on the Clipper until it has flown the number of hours which brings it to its regular overhaul period. It is removed, then, and sent to the overhaul shop, and a newly reconditioned engine is installed in its place. Such an engine change may take place during the servicing of the plane at Idlewild’s new Jet Age hangars, shown in the picture opposite, or at some airport along the route if the Flight Engineer and the Station Inspector feel that it is desirable.
Similarly, other new parts will be substituted for any showing signs
of wear during the engine overhaul. Some changes can be accomplished at service points along the route.
The new Jet Age maintenance facility at New York’s Idlewild Airport is also big! The 740-foot-long hangar has room for about 3,000 office and maintenance personnel plus eight jet aircraft — or 10 DC-7’s — or 12 DC-6’s — plus outside ramp parking space for fourteen aircraft.
Supported by 176 two-and-a-half inch-thick cables, its cantilever roof leaves the aircraft area completely free of pillars or other obstructions. The eight doors on each side are each 80-feet long and 40-feet high, each about as long as the average residential house.
The base enables Pan Am to establish new ultra-modern scientific techniques in aircraft and engine servicing and overhaul.
THINGS TO DO MAINTENANCE
1. Build and fly a model airplane which you may purchase at variety stores or hobby shops. Notice how the wind affects its flight. You can also see this by throwing a paper glider against or with the direction of the wind. Learn the names and uses of the airplane's control surfaces. This information may be found in aviation texts or encyclopedias.
2.	As a class representative, contact your local airport operator and make arrangements for the class to experience a flight over your community.
OTHER ACTIVITIES
1.	Plan a quiz show, asking questions about aviation and the countries you have been visiting. To refresh your memories, refer to social studies texts and a globe.
2.	Invite a travel agent or an airline ticket agent to talk to your class about the cost of tickets and other information. You may like to know about a trip to Paris and some of the other cities we expect to visit.
3.	Draw a "cutaway view" of the inside of an airliner. Pictures from a magazine or travel folder may help you do this.
30
**7nt*°
O.s.A*