Brazilian and South American Indian origin. Quinine was used for years by the Indians to combat malaria before the secret was revealed to the white man. Coca leaves, of which cocaine is a derivative, are still widely grown in Latin America as a stimulant. Oil of copahu, a powerful astringent, is common among the Brazilian natives, and they also have an effective remedy for dysentery called puchurim. Rotanone, the active ingredient of most of our insecticides and plant sprays, is also a Brazilian product. It was formerly used by the Indians to stun the fish in ponds and streams so that they might be more easily caught. Curare, the poison with which blow-gun arrows were tipped, has been of great value in the treatment of spastic paralysis in American hospitals.
The resources of Brazil are incalculable. They are waiting for men to exploit them and make them useful to mankind. Brazil is on her way to achieve the full development of her power, and for that purpose her transportation system is improving, her air lines are multiplying and her people are eagerly working.
Education and Culture in Brazil
It is notable that Brazil with a high percentage of illiteracy should be the leading Latin American Republic in the field of aviation. According to a report issued by the Office of Inter-American Affairs in 1944, about SO per cent of the Brazilian adult population is illiterate. The same report states, “Schools and enrollment : The 42,794 primary schools had a total enrollment of 3,350,737 students in 1941, and the 4,572 intermediate schools reported 419,674. In that year there were 4 universities, in addition to 57 separate faculties and institutes with a total registration of 21,098 students.”
These figures in a country of 45 million inhabitants show indeed how badly education is needed. The December 1945 elections gave a vivid, cruel glimpse in the sad state of affairs. “There were 6J/2 million who registered,” writes Dr. Hernane Tavares de Sa in his recent book The Brazilians. “If illiteracy were lower than 50 per cent —as the government stated—there would have been . . . close to 10 million. The election seems to point out that the number of illiterates in the country is at least one third higher than the number admitted by
official publications. Yet the actual and grim figures about illiteracy in Brazil exist. They were collected in the 1940 census, which was conducted with skill and thoroughness. There are 12 million illiterate adults in the country. Three million children aged 7 to 11, have no schools to go to; and of the 7,200,000 children of high school age—12 to 18 years — almost 7,000,000 are also without schools. While the population increased by several million from 1942 to 1946, during those same years there was a drop of 3,740 schools in Brazil. This means that the rate of illiteracy in Brazil is 65 per cent—which is very high even for South America.”
Problem Will Be Met
The fact that a Brazilian authority makes this statement is reassuring because it points out that the problem will be met with enthusiasm and promptness. On the other hand it	would be	a	pity	if the	concern
for the	education	of	the	people	did not
exist. Some educators regret that secondary	education	is	not	even,	to any
considerable extent, in the hands of local or central government. In Rio, for instance, there are more than 100 private high schools, and only one is maintained by public funds. As Mr. Tavares de Sa puts it, “Education has become, if not exactly big business, certainly one of the most profitable of small business. . . . With primary	education	still in	its embryonic
stage, and secondary education debased into a money-making activity, Brazil is in dire need of a ruthless, revolutionary housecleaning of its whole educational system.”
It is a difficult task to convey in a few paragraphs the school organization in Brazil. After reading numerous books on this matter, we can briefly say that a single educational system cannot be found in the country. Illiteracy varies with each state. Rural schools do not instill in the student those wants and desires which may be realized in the community of which he is a part. Substantial elements of rural life and welfare are often depreciated and gaudy aspects of city life held up in glaring colors, with the result that the rural child is stimulated only to leave the community for the urban world. This movement toward the city is not peculiar to Brazil. The same phenomenon occurs in each one of the other American Republics.
6