AN AIR VIEW OF BRAZIL TODAY
By Enrique Portes
You may have heard that popular song which our crooners sing on the radio, “there’s a lot of coffee in Brazil.” And you may have smiled at it, of course, because Brazil is more than coffee, more than the samba, the carnival, the Amazon River, Sau Paulo and even Rio de Janeiro. Brazil is a young country in the process of development, and leading many of the other American Republics in the fields of industry, aviation, transportation and international affairs.
Brazil is like a Colossus, large and powerful-looking, yet except for her great size, almost defenseless. So far her size has been defense enough. She awaits immigration and industrialization on a vast scale to achieve her destiny.
Brazil is probably the only country in the world to have had its precise geographical frontier established before the land was discovered. Its history began not with the discovery in 1500, but six years previously when Brazil, its existence still unknown to Europe, had its borders carefully mapped by the Vatican. In 1494 the Pope, disturbed by the frequent clashes between Spaniards and Portuguese in their rapidly expanding African and Asiatic possessions, brought together the two Catholic kings and had them agree to divide all the extra-European world between Spain and Portugal. A line was drawn on a globe — the Meridian of Tordesilhas— running “300 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands.” All undiscovered lands west of the meridian would go to
Spain, and those east of the line to Portugal.
When the Portuguese Admiral Pedro Alvares Cabral discovered Brazil in 1500, it was established that the meridian passed about 300 miles west of the point where Cabral landed. In other words, it cut off a long spare strip of the continent for the King of Portugal. The rest of South America belonged to the King of Spain. The story of Brazil during the following three centuries, from a political point of view, could be summed up as an unremitting effort to push back the meridian and gain elbow space, while holding off the foreign invaders who, one after the other, came ashore with a gleam in their eyes. Both tasks were carried out.
When Cabral discovered Brazil, Pero Vaz Caminha. official chronicler, reported to the King. “The land is in such a manner gracious,” wrote Caminha in a flowery prose, “that if one plants, anything will grow from it.”
Trading Post for Portugal
During the first years following the discovery, Brazil was merely a minor trading post for the Portuguese, as the source of a certain commodity that happened to fetch high prices on European markets—a hardwood yielding a crimson dye for textiles. The King’s fleets on their way home from the Orient were thankful for the Brazilian harbors, where they could drop anchor and take on water and
3