RIO HARBOR. Many world travelers consider the harbor at Rio de Janeiro to be the most beautiful in the world. This view shows Sugar Loaf mountain (right center), and the curving drive (left and center) which leads past the Embassies and on to Copacabana Beach (not in picture, but off to right).
stayed to see the polo match, and then returned to Nouilly, while the Parisian crowd stared open-mouthed. Her name was Aida de Acosta, and she is the only woman who has ever soloed in a dirigible.
A few years before—in September, 1898 —the wealthy young Brazilian Alberto Santos-Dumont was about to make the first flight in his $30,000 airship. It was an 80-foot cigar shaped bag of varnished silk filled with hydrogen, powered by a 3J^-horsepower gas engine taken from an auto tricycle. Experts of his day had told him he would fail. He went ahead with his plans and announced to the press that he would take off from the zoological garden, one of the central spots of Paris. Before a gaping crowd that assembled, Santos-Dumont, dapper in a pin-striped suit, derby and kid gloves, climbed smilingly into his “aerial automobile.” It looked like wicker laundry hamper with a gas motor and two-bladed propeller attached by cords to
a balloon. “Let it go!” he shouted. The crew fell back, the engine started, the propeller turned, and Santos-Dumont No. I soared up triumphantly.
“Man flies, man flies!” the crowd cheered and wept. It was the first time people had ever seen a human being steering himself through the air. Suddenly some one shouted hysterically, “It’s broken, it’s broken!”
It was broken indeed, but Santos-Dumont was miraculously saved. He had flown though, and the air had been conquered.
At the time of his first triumph Alberto Santos-Dumont was only 25 years old. He was born in Brazil in 1873, one of ten children of a Sao Paulo coffee king. On his father’s modern plantation he had learned to handle modern machines. At 12 he had learned, in the cab of an American locomotive, to land trainloads of green coffee. He built toy balloons and dreamed
9