is especially for youth. In every city the schools turn out and thousands of boys and girls parade. During the previous weeks the students have been taught at school how important it is for Brazil that many races and colors participate in the formation of the national type. Eventually it will succeed. “If the United States is a melting pot, Brazil must be considered a caldron,” writes T. Lynn Smith. For nearly four centuries Brazil has had large number of white, red and black people thrown into close physical and social contacts. There is disappointment when an immigrant marries a person of his own group. Brazilians subconsciously desire that all foreign groups cease to be foreign in the next generation by intermarrying not necessarily with Brazilians, but if not that, then with other foreign groups, so that they do not stay within their own little clans.
Independence of Brazil
It was not until 1823 that Brazil became independent, and the first country to recognize her was the United States in 1825. José Silvertre Rebello was Brazil’s first envoy to Washington, a man who kept his government informed of U. S. developments in vividly written letters. When in 1900 Rio Branco became Secretary of Foreign Affairs, he found relations with the United States already close and cordial and he proceeded to make them more intimate. In international meetings U. S. and Brazilian delegations almost invariably vote along the same lines, although this close Brazilian co-operation does not mean lack of independence of thought or of critical spirit. The tradition established by Rio Branco is that disagreements with the United States should be settled before an international conference, and not during it, by direct and frank discussions between the two governments. This lifelong friend-
ship climaxed with the U. S. President’s visit to Rio in September, 1947. Introducing Mr. Truman to the Brazilian Congress, Senator Arturo Santos drew thunderous applause from the packed chamber when he said: “The future of Christian civilization is in the hands of the United States. We all feel the obligation to aid the United States in its fight to save democracy and we shall never fail that cause.” In his speech, President Truman said among other things: “The recent war again gave convincing proof of our friendship. The mutual trust and confidence that exists between us manifested itself at an early date in the immediate response of your government to our need for air bases and for supplies of strategic materials. And I’m here to say,” added the President, “that we don’t forget our friends when they have been friends in need.”
It was fitting therefore that the Inter-American Defense Conference should have been held in Brazil. The defense treaty drawn up at Petropolis is the result of the cooperation of the Pan American people determined to work together and protect the peace of the Hemisphere. This treaty comes into effect when ratified by two-thirds of the signatories; those ratifying will be bound by any decisions on which two-thirds of their number agree—except that each nation may determine for itself whether it will implement the treaty with armed forces.
Secretary of State George Marshall hailed the Inter-American Conference at Rio, in a radio report to the American people on September 4, as “one constructive international development in a world sadly in need of such encouragement.”
So Brazil contributed to the unity of the Western Hemisphere, showing at the same time and once again her friendship for the United States.
13