In so far as sex differences, the education of girls does not appear to be considered as important as that of the boys in Brazil. T. Lynn Smith’s Brasil: People and Institutions shows interesting figures which bear out this fact. A small percentage of Brazil’s children are privileged to advance beyond the primary educational levels, to attend secondary schools, and continue through the universities. This is largely because enough schools are not available, and because the bulk of the population lives at a great distance from those that have been established. During the period 1932 to 1940, however, the country made excellent progress in the extension of the privileges and benefits of its educational system to a larger proportion of the children of elementary-school age. The chances are that primary and even secondary education will make rapid progress in the larger cities and towns. Literacy will improve functionally even more than it will quantitatively.
Mexico’s Plan Studied
Many Brazilian educators are following with interest Mexico’s campaign against illiteracy. Mexico is striving to eliminate illiteracy by having every literate Mexican
pledged to teach at least one fellow citizen to read and write. Every literate citizen is today by law obliged to carry a “literacy campaign” card on which his activity as a teacher is set down. The results for the first year of operation of the plan show that one million people were taught to write by compatriots. The Mexican experiment, if it proves successful over a long period, will undoubtedly influence Brazil and other American nations to embark on a similar program.
What is strange is that there should exist a great intellectual activity in a country where the bulk of the population has never been taught to read or write, where millions of children have no school to go to, where elementary principles of hygiene are unknown to the masses.
The language is the great element of cohesion that has made Brazil a nation, instead of a mere geographic expression. The Brazilians talk Portuguese but pronounce it differently, and the curious thing is that this Brazilian accent has remained one and the same throughout the entire length and breadth of the enormous country. The Portuguese and the Brazilian understand each other completely, because
RIO DE JANEIRO. The mosaic plazas of Rio de Janeiro are world famous, and contribute to the beauty of the city. To keep them in good repair, workmen are busy constantly with hammers and bits of stone, replacing broken or missing pieces.
7