of a ship that would go across the skies. As a mechanic he could repair any machine on the plantation. When he entered the University of Rio, Santos-Dumont took honors in science. Later his father sent him to Paris to study aeronautics. In the 90’s Parisians were fascinated by eccentric methods of transportation, horseless carriages, auto tricycles, and balloons.
Santos-Dumont was interested in balloons but found that there were no steerable ones. He also learned that a few attempts had been made to conquer the air, with the subsequent killings of the balloonists. But he was not afraid and his experiments led him to his triumph in 1898. Encouraged by the success of his first flight, he built four more $30,000 machines. Why not win the coveted Deutsch prize of 125,000 francs which awaited the man who could fly around the Eiffel Tower and back to St. Claud in half an hour? In August of 1901 he tried but failed. One month later he made the flight—this time to win the prize which he promptly divided between his ground crew and the poor of Paris. The daring young Brazilian had become the hero of France.
Santos-Dumont was a man of the world, but as simple and direct as a child. He’d work all morning in his shirt sleeves in his own machine shop and then turn up at the most fashionable restaurant in the Bois for lunch dressed invariably in a top hat and frock coat. He kept aeronautics constantly in the public eye by methods worthy of a Hollywood publicity agent. In his dirigible he would fly down the Champs Elysées Boulevard, descending at his favorite café for a drink. When the President of France reviewed the troops one Bastille Day, Santos-Dumont was overhead on his balloon firing blank-cartridge salutes to the envious army on the ground. The debonair young Brazilian was a sensation.
Santos-Dumont was a practical man, a far-sighted scientist who foresaw a new world united by airways along which passengers, mail and freight would be transported. He wanted to show the world that flying was possible and practical, but many prominent men of his day dismissed his ideas. Even the press, reporting the many crashes in which more than once he escaped miraculously, nicknamed him “San-tos-Dismount.”
Santos-Dumont continued experimenting. He developed a monoplane built of bamboo and Japanese silk, and weighing with engine and owner about 242 pounds. In 1909 he set a new speed record by traveling five miles at the rate of 30^2 miles an hour. It was his last triumph, for aviation had begun to pass into the hands of engineers and mechanics working for great industries.
The Brazilian inventor withdrew from the world. Like Nobel, Santos-Dumont feared that the airplane would make war more terrible. When World War I came he persuaded himself that he was responsible for it. After the Armistice he sent two desperate letters to the League of Nations, pleading that the airplane never again be used for bombing or other warlike purposes. Every aviation disaster intensified his belief that he had brought a curse into the world. Arriving in Brazil in 1928, a Condor plane flying out to meet his ship, crashed into Rio Harbor killing its crew. Santos-Dumont attended their funeral and then locked himself in a hotel room for days. When the dirigible R-101 was wrecked he tried to kill himself. After that attempt, relatives and loyal friends kept close watch on him. In 1932 there was a brief revolt in Sao Paulo against the federal government. Santos-Dumont saw in the skies of his native Brazil the engines of destruction which had come out of his little airship of 1901. He hanged himself with his necktie.
It is a pity that Santos-Dumont could not wait to see the great progress of aviation today: giant Constellations, jet-propelled planes, and Flying Clippers, the world united by airways as he dreamed of.
Brazil has not forgotten Santos-Dumont. Her leadership in aviation is undoubtedly the result of the pioneering spirit that made Alberto Santos-Dumont the father of flight.
Brazilian Leadership in Aviation
Aviation like radio communication has been a blessing to the American Republics. Brazil in particular has benefited more than any other nation from aviation. There is a “moving frontier” toward the western Central Plateau thanks to the airplane which has enabled the modern Brazilian pioneer to cross rivers, jungles and mountains in a few hours and establish himself
10