powerful in South America. In 1927 a total of only 643 passengers was carried by all the airlines. By contrast, nineteen years later, Panair do Brasil alone carried 100 times that figure.
VARIG and Condor Syndicate operated the first commercial services in 1927 and were followed by VASP in 1934. Panair do Brasil was organized as an affiliated of the Pan American Airways on September 15, 1930, and Navegaceo Aereo Brasileira began services in 1941. Condor was nationalized as Servicos Aereos Cruzeiro do Sul. Another air service in the country is Correio Aereo Nacional, which carries mail over more than 15,000 miles of routes operated by the Army.
It is Panair however which typifies the great development of commercial aviation in Brazil. It is a truly Brazilian airline: ground crews, pilots, engineers, etc. What Brazilians themselves think of Panair was indicated when the company’s president, Paulo Sampaio, announced in 1943 that the stock of the company would be increased. The stock issue was to be made available to citizens of all parts of the country. The response was extraordinary. Great crowds waited in the office of the company twenty-four hours before the sales were scheduled to start. Panair owns today and has in its service the Constellations such as inaugurated the Rio-Rome route September 23, 1946. Veteran pilots of this service were sent to the United States for special consultation with the technicians of the Lockheed plant.
The great axis of Brazil runs southeast to northwest for 3000 miles, and it is commonly known as “The Great Diagonal.” It connects Rio and Sao Paulo in the south with the Amazon River in the north. But this Great Diagonal is more than the central axis of Brazil. It is also the logical trunk route for air travel between North and South America. For South America lies east of Detroit, so that if the Great Diagonal is extended northwest on the globe, it will go through the Mississippi Valley to reach Chicago. This, the shortest distance for air travel between North and South America, is bound to become the main thoroughfare for passenger and cargo planes, from which all secondary lines will go out. There is today an airport built at Aragorcas, in the heart of the wilderness, and American lines
began to use it as a stop a few months ago.
During the last war a small town in northeastern Brazil called Natal became one of the world’s busiest airports, with great numbers of planes landing and taking off every day. Through Natal went the southern Atlantic route of the Army Transport Command, linking the United States with the Mediterranean and African war theaters, with India and with China. When the Germans reached the gates of Alexandria, through Natal flowed the needed supplies that helped Montgomery to stop the tide. Americans became familiar with little Natal, situated in the easternmost point of the “bulge,” that part of Brazil nearest to Africa and Europe. The Brazilians know the value of modern aviation and realize the part which it will play in the future of their country. It is no wonder therefore that it has reached such amazing progress. Alberto Santos-Dumont set the pace in Brazil’s march toward the sky. It is fitting that his name should honor one of the greatest airports of South America, Rio’s Santos-Dumont Airport.
Some Brazilian Customs and Traditions
Brazilian customs and traditions have undergone little changes in spite of the country’s progress during the last ten years. It is hard, for instance, for the foreigner to know how to address Brazilians, since some are known by their first names, some by their last, some by a couple of names. It is still harder to understand why it seems impossible to meet anyone who is not a “doctor.” The great number of doctors is first of all a result of the educational system. While an American on graduation receives a B.A. the Brazilian carries through the rest of his life, happily, the title of doctor conferred upon him on graduation.
Brazil is a country where racial prejudice does not exist. The expression “a member of your race” translated into Portuguese is meaningless. There is, however, a great consciousness of a Brazilian race as a goal toward which the nation must work. “Such a race,” writes Mr. Tavares de Sa, “would be a combination of all different bloods and colors, including the yellow race, but with a larger proportion of white blood.”
That Brazil wants to create a national type is a well-known fact. Every year there is the Diet da Raga, a national holiday dedicated to this Brazilian race. This day
12