they use the same words, the same syntax; but in their intonation, and also partly in their literary expression, the most insignificant variations have grown stronger, to much the same extent as English and American split and grew apart. It usually comes as a surprise to North Americans to learn that Spanish is not spoken in Brazil. As for Brazilians, they have become rather touchy on this subject of language.
Brazilian Literature
Brazilian literature has penetrated into world literature. It is astonishing to watch the interest in intellectual production. There is no doubt that the educated Brazilian is intellectually alive. With his flexible intelligence, intuition and facility for expressing himself in speech, the Brazilian has a natural love for linguistically beautiful form. He expresses himself also in letters and human relationships with a very special courtesy, and is inclined toward a certain exuberance in rhetorical matters. In Brazil as in the Spanish American Republics there still exists a great respect for intellectual achievement. The Brazilian’s innate love for the more gentle forms has for a long time given preference to poetry in the national literature. When Dom Pedro II visited the United States in 1876 the first thing he did was to inquire from Secretary of State Hamilton Fish about the health of Longfellow. Mr. Fish didn’t have any recent information about Mr. Longfellow, a fact that surprised the Emperor of Brazil a little ; he took it as a matter of course that the administration in Washington should feel a vital concern about the state of health of the nation’s leading living poet.
In the second half of the nineteenth century with the two really impressive personalities, Machado de Assis and Euclydes da Cunha, Brazil moved into the arena of world literature. Machado de Assis means for Brazil what Dickens meant for England. He has the ability to create types which characterize his country, his people. He is a born story-teller and the combination of a gentle wit and supreme scepticism adds a special charm to the novels. With his Dom Casmurro he has created a figure which in his country is as immortal as David Copperfield in England. Euclydes da Cunha’s national epic the Os Scrtaos was created purely by chance.
By profession an engineer, Euclydes da Cunha has accompanied one of the military expeditions against the Canudos, a rebellious sect in the wild and dark country of the North, as a reporter for the newspaper Estado da San Paulo. The report of this expedition, written with great dramatic power, turned out to be a psychological picture of the Brazilian soil, the people and the country, such as has never since been achieved with equal insight and sociological comprehension.
The present trends in literature, painting, music and architecture were born in Sao Paulo point to something new and true, rooted in the realities of Brazilian life. Portinari leads the modern school of painting and Villa Lobos leads the modern school of music. Among the modern writers we can point to Flavio de Carvalho mention his book Experience No. 2. And Raul Bopp who set out on muleback toward the Amazon River, which he reached more than a year later, remaining there some time studying mythology, folklore, and dances in the Amazon Basin, and wrote a book, Cobra Norato, which is one of the finest books of its kind.
In music Brazil has its Carlos Gomez born in 1836, who at the age of 24 finished his opera A Noite do Castello. But more than Gomez it is Villa Lobos who has made the most important Brazilian contribution to the music of the world. Original in the use of rhythm he gives to each of his works colors which in their brightness, and again in their mysterious melancholy, seem to reflect the landscape and the Brazilian soul.
Brazil’s cultural life has a. definite originality and vigor. It will be richer and more powerful when its 45 million inhabitants have been incorporated through education into the life of this great country.
Alberto Santos-Dumont
“Flying is so simple a school girl can do it. It is not dangerous,” Santos-Dumont used to tell his Parisian friends. To prove that flying was destined to be a part of every-day life, he did things that even today have not been surpassed. Once, during an Anglo-American polo match held in the first years of this century, he sent a young lady on a solo flight from Nouilly to Paris. She came down safely,
8