fresh food after a long hard run around the Cape of Good Hope. But that was incidental, and almost as incidental were the few hardy sailors who, tired of following the sea, had settled on the Brazilian coast and were engaged in the one industry of the newly discovered land— the extraction of highly valuable dye.s from a tropical tree, the pao-braza, so called because of its dull red color, like an ember (braza).
The story of pao-braza—as a Brazilian writer puts it—stands as a preview of the economic cycles of Brazil up to the present. In these economic cycles the country whirled dizzily—the ruinous vicious cycles of a short, feverish, suicidal boom followed by a sickening crash. First pao-braza, then sugar, then gold, then rubber, finally coffee. A few minor booms grafted themselves on the main stem of the country’s economic history—like the boom in diamonds, the one in cocoa, and the war boom in quartz crystals that ended in 1945.
Pao-braza, if it brought the country no enduring wealth, at least gave it its name —or rather the name of its inhabitants, for “Brazilian” came before “Brazil.” Among the sailors aboard the Portuguese ships putting in for supplies in one of the tropical harbors, their compatriots who had settled in the land to extract the precious wood were known as brazileiros. A few years later the country began to be called Brazil.
When we think of Brazil the Amazon River comes immediately to our minds. It is truly a “sea river” as Brazilians call it. Its overwhelming bigness can be read in the astonished expressions of passengers who fly for the first time from Miami to Rio. When the Pan American Flying Clipper approaches the Amazon near Belem, the stewardess walks along the aisle telling the passengers that they are beginning to cross the world’s greatest river. Twenty minutes later she once more walks the aisle telling them that they have just finished crossing the river. Those who have never made the trip before look at her in puzzlement. It is hard for them to believe that the Amazon is at that point more than 120 miles wide and a fast-flying passenger plane takes twenty minutes to cross it.
Coffee in Brazil
Coffee has been one of Brazil’s first exports for nearly half a century. In 1944 its production reached approximately 13 million bags (60 kilos each) about one-half of total world output. In 1920—according to a Brazilian source—Brazil produced 80 to 90 per cent of the world’s coffee, sold at high prices on foreign markets. With the profits of coffee, Sao Paulo—its center, within a few thousand of a million and a half population—was not only prospering but paying 75 per cent of all federal expenses, while the other nineteen states contributed the remaining fourth. “Coffee can get you everything,” the paulistas used to say. But when the depression came, coffee slumped lower than almost any other item, and the country suffered severely. The depression made clear how precarious was the position of the country that depended for its economic survival chiefly on one crop.
In the following year efforts were made to diversify agriculture, but Brazil has not yet established its food production on a self-sufficient basis. Coffee continues to lead all other exports, but steel is the central pillar of the new economic structure. Since 1940 coffee has represented less than 10 per cent of the country’s total production, and it will become every year less important in the broad economic picture. In other words, a home market has come into existence, demanding an increasing number of goods. With steel coming into the foreground, dozens of consumer goods are bound to develop. Today the steel mill at Volta Redonda, between Rio and Sao Paulo, is already in operation. The plant put out 200,000 tons of steel by the end of 1946. Eventually it will reach a capacity close to a million tons. The best capacity for it is between 600.000 and 700,000 tons—which will represent one third of Brazil’s needs.
Other developments include a pulp and paper mill to produce wood pulp and newsprint, a factory for the production of flat glass, a plant to manufacture airplane motors, and an establishment for refining aluminum. The production of rayon, chemical products, and metals of all types, as well as cotton textiles, has been increased.
Brazil is one of the most important trading nations of Latin America. In 1938 exports were valued at 295.6 million
4