COFFEE. Brazil’s chief export, coffee beans have to be spread out in the sun to dry before being packed for shipment. Here the beans have been dumped in mounds. They will be spread out in rows and will be turned from time to time so that all
the beans will dry evenly.
dollars, or 16 per cent of the value of all exports of the American Republics. Imports amounted to 295.6 million dollars, or 20 per cent of the total imports of the American Republics. In 1943 the value of exports amounted to 436.4 million dollars and of imports, 303.6 million.
Imports comprise a wide variety of manufactured goods, machinery and equipment, and raw material for domestic processing. In 1943 manufactures amounted to 52 per cent of total imports, raw materials 31 per cent, and foodstuffs 17 per cent. More than 54 per cent of these imports were obtained from the United States. Under the United States-Brazilian trade agreement, Brazil granted reductions in duty on 67 United States industrial and agricultural products. These reductions ranged between 20 and 67 per cent of the previous duties. Brazil was assured of continued duty-free entry into the United States of coffee and 11 other products; these 12 together constitute 90 per cent of United States imports
from Brazil. Reductions in duty also were provided for seven other Brazilian commodities.
Our trade with Brazil, however, remained meager until the first world war cut off European contacts. Since then U. S. sales mounted steadily. By 1920, our Fords and Chevrolets were outnumbering the Renaults and Citroens, and Delages and Panhards were struggling to keep pace with Packards and Cadillacs. Now the situation is tragic for European cars. “The 1940 figures for registered cars in the city of Recife, with a population of about 400,000,” writes Miss Elsie Noble Cadwell in her interesting book In a Changing Brasil, “showed 1,438 United States cars against 100 for all European makes.”
Interesting as these figures may be in the business world, we must not forget what Brazil has given to us in other fields. In medicine, for instance, a number of our own most common medicines are of
5