Central America
SCANDINAVIA W FINLAND
If sun, sea and surf, strike a respohsiye chord in K-you, themyou’ff-Jbe happy at any of a number of “coastal resorts,..,. . Montevideo, Puntà del - Esté, Mar ffèfePlata, Rio. Then, toofthere arfttheiluxurious resorts in the majestic Andes m rangé», where the mountain-breezes cool thé ^ f South American iaristoerats àk they dine: and dance on ^easantwBffl^fesiHb ; And there are; countless idther experiences ^piyou’ll enjoy — any one of Which would be : ■ alone, worth your; trip. In store for you might. 'bej'a bafbecue prepared on thé" pampas in ' gaucho, style . .5*>your. view out over the mountains from the feet ofithè giant statue of ‘“Christ'of*-the Andes” . . . the thrill of your cable-car ride to":the peak of Sugar Loaf .Mountain. Perhaps your trip will be down one coast,-backvup!:the other—seeingall ofSouth America. But whether you visit all or little of this fascinating land, y6^n^b^sure*to want to-see it again, some dàyg affiferoy Pan American Clipper: v-
- Youil^m5yptl^«;ontrasts of Central America. In Honduras, your hombwill be-astaodem as Clipper travel, •yet close by you’ll be photographed against a background fe^pink and green stone houses aftid moss covered churches bf- an,earlier era'.
» The friendly,' sociableNicaraguans revel in colorful ¡fiestas. And no	When Igau'visit Managua, the
capital; very likely yoii’ll find some:celebration going on. .
In Costa Rica at San ji^epoiifll enjoy the hospitality of ©Id Spain. For a new expenence|fffive4 up’Irazu Volcano .to see the World at sunrise from this crater vantage point. ifr'In ^Panama youill' surely take a cruise through“ the-^Canal/Or charter a ra'unc'hjtroTaboga|fj3r the excellent’ Swimming Plan to discover for yourself the^beauties of Central'America by- Clipper. ’ «
All or)any òf these laçtif.pf sunlignightSsOfferi^® rewards for your travel ' -<Wintertim|f| there’sTaf1special sparkle to thé snow on ^eandinavianfpine-elad slopes and steep-peaked fnpuses. And winter sports • throughout Norway, Sweden and Finland are^ithput; compare.
In the summer, ’fltieiunruflflçd fjords‘reflect a deep .blue sky,, matched only ;l$y thè eyes of the blond?lSG^d;inavians' Themselves. At FahOji;'in.D,enmark,; you’^p.^®one of the wonderfully unspoiled seaside resorts.
The greatcities ¡¡of-Oslo -and Stockholm have -.attrac-liipnsiito entertain .feu whether your interests are lively,;or literary. You’ll enjoy,¡top, a-visit.to Helsinki,‘capital of !Finland, only, æ.'¿shortjffipper flight^from.-,Stockholm.
And in Copenhagen ^0q’fi'findJffeJun.Tòving. Danes approve héàrjily of frivolity, In your ^ftcr-dinper. wanderings you may take in^a .variety oÊspots/ranging frpm, I® largest night club4in Europe to some châpnÿng beer garden where red-fae.edwaiters, carry an incredible num-berfbfsteins in each band ... and never spill a d^gpV(And therèîs music to soothe, plus wonderful Carlsbérg beer.
Nbw that these northyjPountries —; Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland ^ are served by Clipper, their trade and travel. oj^órtunities are yours to èxplore.
Alaska
Comfortably cool days, sunny nights, modern hotel accommodations are just some of the surprise treats in store for you when you visit Alaska in summer. Fishing is “open” the year ’round (except for a few restricted areas) —and it’s incrèdible. Trout 35 pounds and more aren’t uncommon in the clear, tumbling streams. And you’ll be surprised to find flowers growing thick underfoot up above the Arctic Circle.
Alaska is a fabulous place to visit, and by Clipper all of Alaska is convenient to all of the world !
AND A NEW WORLD HORIZON
You haven’t really traveled. until you’ve seen the U.S.A. And the people are as interesting as the places you go. You’ll enjoy chatting with soft-voiced tobacco growers of the south, drawling cowboys on the western, grazing plains, brisk oilmen pf Texas, citrus growers of California, lumbermen of the Nprthyvest^ dairymen -of the Great Lakes area, and fishermen along the Atlantic seaboard.
If city life stirs your .imagination, if laughter, excitement and rubbing elbows with the great and near-great makes your heart beat; a little faster, there’s a wealth of pleasure ahead for you: Stateside. Reconcile yourself, though, to the-fact that in New York alone you could spend a dozen holidays.and not see it all. And there’s still Chicago, New Orleans and;big cities all the way to San
Francisco on the west coast. In Los Angeles and Hollywood you can be part of the most glittering night life in the world, walk through portals of supper clubs and [restaurants known by name round the world. And you * may even meet a few movié stars.
Or perhaps you like the wind in your hair, to let body and soul expand to the open spaces. Again your choice is ¡as broad as the continent. . . all the way from climbing the sand dunes of Cape Cod, New England’s sandy, [beckoning finger — to the vast National Parks pf the West where you’ll take bridle paths through the shade of Giant Sequoias.
From south, from north, from east, from west . . . when you go by Clipper, you: enjoy the best.
L'J'§o)Kh-America is ,bigV--so big you’ll find every-‘thirig.you could lopkffor to make your vacation perfect:; Yet, from point to point by v>Clipper! within South America, distances are short in terms of air travel. .yffiifeus lived|sIowep but to. the .full in these-latitudes. You’ll discuss your. South American business affairs pyer-demi-cups of strong coffee: Dinner won’t be.until jjj^Jeisureljfcnine'in .the evening, with after-dark pleas* iu^es stretching into the early morning hours.
The Great Cities of the World Await You in
and the Middle East
FOR ALL THE FUN OF FIESTAS, CHOOSE
KONO
MEXICO
jBîVEN a partial list of Clippér airports of call sets this' -imagina tionracing . .... Lisbon, London, Paris, Brussels, Munich, Nice, Rome, ‘ Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki^ Istanbul, Beirut. What a vronderful itinerary — the] cultural and-business/câpitals of thitfOontinent. And byt Clipper it can be ÿoursÈjfeven though'your time for travel is limited.
Take advantage of Clipper no-extra-charge stop-oyéfÿ privileges tp|linger longer for fascinating side trips. Out-, side, of: London there’s the neat English countryside, and for .“‘contrast your later ramblings through.’the Black[ Forest of Germany and]the Rhine Valley.-The haut monde Throngs to jt'he coast^of the Mediterranean: Rome is‘a'j fountain of Spiritual inspiration, and in Istanbultybu’llJ find an "international crossroads city'where West and? East	and jningled pleasingly.
’ ’^Âçd naturally, in these great capital cities, you’ll find ?ahd):^njp.ÿ: ,.the world’s finest int concerts, the. the<|tr'e;!$ fanned ballets, exhibitsofre-] nowneffmuseums .âncùartj • ■■ ‘ÆÊÊÈÊÊÊ galleries, as well as arieffer-j H vescent after-dark life.You! could take the grand tour of Europe ten.times'oven "v ... . . and still you’d fincH new sights, fresh delighi|a
fi*	jS	constant enchantment.
... . And by. Clippéf - can t II ; : go farther, see and :d'M vj ‘il *	„	more. You have more tiriili
¡£i s	there, when you go by air'M
South.
Chances are your Clipper will' '	L. -
set you down right in the middle^. - jpC TTvBTyt of one of Mexico City’s frequent. fiestas : . an experience to banish
any cares you haveii 'June-like	*
breezes the year around, due to : its cooling altitude, make this city, \	JJ
i'a refreat from heat, as well as a	mm
.fashionable tropical winter resort ..
'¿for leisure-lovers.
¿¿¿An hour away'by Clipper andi|^m|rg[TmAcapulco, IRiviera" of the Americas. Everything to make your holiday;-memorable is herei. :... broad, white beaches, rolling surf or sun-warmed pools and protected waters, incredible fishing offshore, and pleasure-filled evenings that draw a gay throng from two continents.
GUATEMALA usShe little ‘cotijSiry- with big surprises for you. Your Clipper lands in Guatemala City, and right away you feel its new-old charm. You’ll especially like the ancient churches, well tended parks and gardens, the National Palace, the Bustling CentfaLMarket for keepsake shopping. Only an . hour away is old, old Antigua basking contentedly in the sun at Th® feet of the great volcano cones of Agua aridEuego. Yes^Guatemala is one of the most dramatic sightseeing shows you’ve ever seen.
THE CARIBBEAN . . . Here are islands of song, sunshine and sapphire seas. Cuba, Jamaica, Haiti, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Lesser Antilles, Cur^êho, Trinidad, Tobago . . ; these are names that spell history--'romance and àdventures untold.. Smart resorts^œaterjtn'yourvlove of luxurious-living are dotted all.the' way fromi-Mprfo Gastle, guardian of Havana’s harbor, to Tôbâgo,* where a' castaway once is reputed'ter have taught his parrot-to'say “Poor Robinson Crusoe”: You’ll.- have fun dmjthes Caribbean — and most onJall,' ||||i’»lF èhjq^^our^Ciipipei^crtysè' there.
There’s High Adventure "Down Under" in
Australia and
New Zealand
iOn ^	a// R you’ve a taste for the
IwHR*' yl w	exotic, let the Orient delight
your travel appetite. Feast your IIlINh	eyes on Fujiyama’s snow cap as
/ you sit in an exquisite Japanese tea garden, being served by kimono clad attendants. Siam is a traveler’s treat, too, where you’ll marvel at the splendor of Bangkok’s many ornate temples. In Manila, Singapore, Calcutta, Karachi and Hong Kong you’ll savor the special excitement of international ports ... native craft anchored alongside merchantmen from the western world, dockside workmen speaking in every language and dialect. U By Clipper^ the Orient is near to any M -jmSStu place — a business or pleasure trip Ju ..¡SeiJl there from any world center, is a trip of only a day and a few hours.
So, for a trip you’ll long remember,	^2|S||
(take a modern Clipper over the	.
old travel routes, to the once
!‘ni|Perious East”.	JjSLjUjVRpn
Á NEW VENTURE FOR THE ADVENTUROUS
YOUR ISLAND
PARADISE
Pani,'Amefic^n|s Clipper stop in the Union of South Africa —Johannesburg — is a convenient starting point for your business or pleasure plans.’ But besides that, it’s: the largest cit^jsouthfof l^ttoon the^Sntinent, with gooff WMMi?&ild all the [ajtfractions of mmgJmg world capital ^Brih^atres, opera and concerts, fine restaurants, enter-staining night spots.
\ There’s a wealth of adventure jn'a safari into the Amteo.' In;'E8ppoldviffej a Pan American^-stOp and gateway to the Congo; you’ll find fine accommodations, good food and excellent transportation available.
In busy, modern Capetown,	,
flowers, subtropical fruits and-coloriuL'people. -.You.ican enjoy here year ’round swimming, fishing -or lazy, care-' free living in the sun. ;
You’ll marvel aUSouth Africa’s beautyi and industry. Once almost inaccessible- for travelers and businessmen, no.w South Africa is conveniently reachied from all over the'world by. Clipper.
jFhijigs.;you have to see for yourself' in Australia: the desolate but strangely beautiful “Outback” ... bushmeri, painted “.black-fellows” so skillful with their boomerangs . . : thrilling, world-famed lifeboat drills into the roaring ¡surf s . Gibber Plains, once the ocean’s floor, where ant hills arfe'?20 feet high, arid the ground is scattered with ^qdndv 2-ton boulders known as “Devil’s Marbles’.’. But even after meeting a duck-billed, platypus face to face you’ll hardly believe yOur eyes,. !_
'Yo^pItHrifl to the beauty and glamour of Sydney and Melbourne in Australia and to-the: hustling, modern business centers )bf Auckland and Wellington, New Zealand. At Rotorua you’ll enjoy the soothing hot spring baths. Near by you’ll explore a real Maori village and see geysers spouting. You’ll find sdme of the best bathing,: scenery and fishing: (both fresh and salt water) in New Zealand. And Australians • and • New ^ealandets are friehdly people With whom to spend a holiday. " .
Imagine cocoanut palms stirring in- the trade breezes, cloudless blue skies, the lulling sigh of^^^Sj breakers sweeping aCross the coral lagoon. Then^ORE add perfect beaches ancba benign climate where the temperature never varies more than a few degrees from a blissful 75, bronzed and handsome natives as much at home in the warm Pacific as on .land, the plaintive fi caff of distant guitars and the whis-'Le % pering tropic nights breathing the
™ scent of frangipani... but why go on—when it’s so easy to live the experience of Hawaii, to go there by Clipper. In addition to regular President service—Pan Am also offers fabulously-low-cost Clipper Tourist Service to Hawaii, offering a combination of speed, comfort and economy never before possible.
ffipleander fragrance, Sparkling beaches, sails curtseying farpul on winking har[bQrs; nostalgic. horse-drawmYictbil rias and cycling couples . these are your happy holiday, impressions of Bermuda and Nassau. Travel the world over, and if you’re looking for fun, relaxation and outdoor sports, you’ll- :find- no more charming spots than, these. Mere words can-never tell the story. Until you’ve seen Bermuda- and ¿Nassau you’U;,never realize -their beauty. {And whether your visit is in winter or summer, the clixfiate is ideal. -	■/>	-
Pan Ant’s 196-page guide has all the travel information you need for enjoying trips outside the U. S. A. Only $1 through any Pan American World Airways office• Or send $1 to Pan American World Airways, Dept DU, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.
Your Guide to All 6 Continents
IfDOlflHK