Continental cuisine is featured at the Monsenate Room and Grill Europa, noted above. They have cocktail lounges also. Gran Vatel is the newest restaurant also serving European dishes. La Flambée or Cyrus for French food and wine. The Temel is noted for seafood and steaks, has native dishes too. All private clubs, have wonderful food. See clubs.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Shopping center in Bogotá is Carrera 7, which is also the commercial center of Bogotá. Some of the many good shops are: Valdiri, Sandra, Picadilly, Almacén Bogotá, Jennie, Camacho Roldan, Gregory and Salon Margarita. Many shops offer jewelry and other items at less than prices at home.
SPECTATOR SPORTS ... In Bogotá horse racing Sundays at the Hipódromo is planned. Bullfights Sundays in February to March at the Circo de Santamaría, one of the finest bull rings. Boxing and wrestling matches at the Circo de Santamaría. Polo matches at the Polo Club de Bogotá, Polo Club de Santa Fé. Soccer is the national sport. Baseball is played in Barranquilla and Cartagena. Cock-fighting is popular.
SPORTS . . . There are many golf courses in Bogotá, among them: the Bogotá Country Club (cards required, 36-hole course), the Fos Largartos and San Andres. Tennis courts at all three clubs. Many of the country clubs have pools. Hunting and fishing expeditions to vari-out parts of the country can be arranged; there is excellent hunting. The big-game hunter can have a wonderful time. There is excellent duck shooting in the country, too. Good marlin fishing is to be found at Barranquilla, and the river port of Girardot, about 100 miles from the capital, offers excellent fishing.
THEATERS . . . There are several large theaters in Bogotá. The Colón is the opera and concert house; the Colombia seats 2,000 people.
TIME . . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Usually 10 per cent, no more. Tip only waiters, porters, hat-check or cloak-room attendants. No tipping for taxis is expected.
TRANSPORTATION . . There are many taxi fleets and cars for hire. Avianca has air taxi service to mountain areas otherwise difficult to reach.
WATER . . . Safe in Bogotá and Barranquilla.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Bogotá is the world center for the best emeralds (Bauer and Kling are two leading jewelry shops). There is the usual handwrought silver, Indian rugs and blankets. The figurines sculptured from crude rubber and tinted are unusual.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . For Bogotá, women will need lightweight wool suits and dresses, sweaters and skirts and a topcoat. A fur jacket can be used. For the coastal cities, light-weight clothes, of course. A raincoat and overshoes are recommended wherever you go. Men need a topcoat and light wool suits for Bogotá. Sports clothes for the coastal cities. Slacks and sports jackets may be worn.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING