is 60 minutes from Bogotá. By Panagra, non-stop from Panamá City to Cali, 2 hours; by Avianca to Medellin, 2Vi hours. By ship, 8 days from New York to Buenaventura or Cartagena with stopover.
ACCOMMODATIONS- •• Newest and best in Bogotá is the Hotel Tequendama, which, like others of Intercontinental Hotels Corporation, is well planned, beautifully equipped, and operated on American standards. It has studio-type rooms with a view of the mountains and city. Rates are about $7.50 to $10 single and $10.50 to $13 double. The Hotel Continental is also new and good. Among many others are Hotel Granada, Hotel San Francisco, Residencias, Saute Fé. Rates: $5.60 to $17.60, European Plan.
Arts-The National Museum has galleries devoted to archaeology, Indian ceramics, sculptures and silver, rooms given over to the colonial period. The Museum of Fine Arts contains examples of paintings and sculptures by native artists dating back to that time. The Casa Colonial Museum also houses relics and paintings of the colonial age. The Quinta Bolivar, home of Bolivar in Bogotá, houses relics of the liberator. In the Bank of the Republic, see the Gold Museum, too.
BALLET- • • Visiting ballet groups appear the year round. There are several ballet academies in Bogotá.
BANKS- • • The Banco de la República, Banco de Colombia, National City Bank of New York, Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of Bogotá, Bank of London and South America.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS May 1, Labor Day; July 20. Independence Day; August 7, Battle of Boyacá; October 12, Columbus Day; November 11, Independence of Cartagena; Christmas; and New Year’s Day. The banks close from December 24 to January 2.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO- ■ • All American brands of cigarettes and tobacco. Cigarettes are about 30 cents United States per package. There is also a variety of local cigarettes, cigars and tobacco at much lower prices. All very good.
CLIMATE- • • Bogotá has an altitude of 8,500 feet. The city is cool, similar to early spring in the United States. Colombia is at its best from December to March.
CLUBS- • • 1° Bogotá, the Jockey Club, Gun Club, Anglo-American Club, Club Médico (for doctors), Lawyers’ Club (for lawyers), Lions Club and Rotary Club. Country Clubs are: Bogotá Country Club, Los Lagartos, San Andres Golf Club, American Sport Club. Inquire of local Pan American representative about visitors’ cards.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS Strictly Euro pean. Dinner as late as 10:30. High society is usually seen during late evenings in the best places. Custom of the middle class in Bogotá is to visit the National Parks on week ends and holidays.
COMMUNICATIONS- • • All America Cables for overseas cables; Radiograms through National Government; long-distance telephone service to the United States and Canada is available.