CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the peso, worth $2.50 (Colombian pesos) to the dollar.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Tourists may obtain a Tourist Card. Passport not required. Smallpox vaccination certificate (not more than 3 years old) and general health certificate. Commercial travelers may obtain business visas. Ticket to a point outside Colombia also required. You may bring in, duty free, 300 grams of tobacco (about 150 cigarettes or 15 cigars) and Vi bottle of liquor for personal use. Currency must be declared. One is not permitted to leave the country with more than the amount brought in.
DRUG STORES ... At least one on every street. All United States products are carried.
FAUNA. . . Colombia is filled with wild life. Jaguars, pumas, panthers, armadillos, tapirs and partridge are waiting for the hunter, but arrangements should be made in advance.
FLORA . . . Many varieties of tropical flowers, particularly orchids from Medellin.
FOOD... Native dishes are highly spiced and marvelous. Try pollo a la cazadora, or chicken in butter sauce, baked in wine, mustard and vinegar. You’ll find tamales here, too. The cities have restaurants and hotels which serve international food.
LANGUAGE. . . Spanish is the universal language, but English and French are widely spoken. The traveler from the United States has no trouble making himself understood.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING. . . Available in every section of the city. Twenty-four-hour service in hotels if desired.
LIQUOR . . . Native drink is aguardiente, a fiery liquor. All liquors are available, but expensive.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... There are many fcnglish-speaking doctors and nurses who have had training and experience in the States.
MOTION PICTURES... There are large comfortable movie houses. Largest in Bogotá are the Teatro Colombia -and the Coliseo. However, most of the movie theaters in town are good. The open-air theater. La Media Torta, located near the Quinta Bolivar, presents free plays, musical shows, dances and ballets on almost every Sunday.
MUSIC. . . Bogotá has an excellent conservatory of music and a national orchestra. The conservatory band plays Sunday mornings jn the Parque Independencia. Famous artists from all over the world often perform at the beautiful and traditional Teatro de Colón.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . High society prefers the Monserrate Room at the Hotel Tequendama and the Grill Europa, with floor shows usually at both. Others are the Casbah and the Grill Colombia.
RELIGION. . . Colombia is a Catholic country and has 17 cathedrals. The Protestant church, attended by the English-speaking colony, is the Union Church of Bogotá.
RESTAURANTS. .. The food at the top hotels is good. High