Bogotá. . . There are many old colonial buildings in Bogotá dating from the pre-Bolivar era. The Palace of San Carlos, where the Liberator once lived, should be visited. Also the Teatro de Colón and the churches of Santa Inés, San Ignacio, San Agustín, La Tercera, San Diego, and San Francisco. All of these are very old. There are at least 60 churches in the city The Cathedral on the Plaza Bolivar is beautiful and one of the oldest on the continent.
Bogotá’s seats of learning are many. You should see the Colegio Nacional de San Bartolomé, founded in 1604. Near the capital is Monserrate, a peak that may be ascended by funicular. Theje is a famous chapel on the summit. The Salto de Tequendama is a waterfall 13 miles from the capital. It was an Indian shrine, and there are many legends connected with it. There’s an inn nearby.
Las Salinas de Zipaquira, 30 miles from the city, are salt mines which are quite spectacular. Entering through a portal, one can drive for three mijes. At the end of the largest gallery is a full-sized cathedral. By car and horseback go on to Laguna de Guatavita, 35 miles from the capital, a lagoon rimmed by high mountains, which was held sacred by the ancient Chibchas.
Barranquilla . . the country’s chief seaport, is a bright modern city near the mouth of the Magdalena River, one of the great waterways of the Western Hemisphere. It is a place of contrasts of streamlined cars and boys riding on burros, of a native dance known as la cutnbia and modern jazz. It gets cooler from November to March. Best hotel in the city is the charming Hotel de! Prado, with many air-conditioned rooms. Also the Hotel Pradomar at the seaside resort, 20 minutes away, is excellent. Both are operated by Intercontinental Hotels Corporation. The country clubs have fine golf courses, tennis courts and swimming pools. Wonderful deep-sea fishing nearby.
Cartagena - . . is a wonderful old walled city which lies on a sandy peninsula. There are many interesting old buildings and fortifications. There is good swimming at Marbella Beach on Tierra Bomba Island. The Hotel del Caribe located at Boca Grande.
Cali-is a city in the rich Cauca valley with a lower altitude and pleasant year-round climate. There are eight parks in the city and many buildings of colonial interest. The orchid plantation of Señor Horacio Gomez is about 4 miles from Cali.
Newest hotel is luxurious Hotel Aristi with excellent dining room. The Alférez Real is on the Cali River, which runs through the main thoroughfare of the city. The Pension Menendez is also good. The Club Campestre de Cali is an ancient hacienda surrounded by orchid-draped trees in which humming birds flit. It’s the social center of the city and an extraordinary place, also Club San Fernanco is good.
Medellin-also famous for its orchids, is situated about 150 miles north of Bogotá. It has a summer-like climate and is a garden spot. It is also an air-route junction for all parts of Colombia.
The Natibara is the leading hotel and compares with the best. The Medellin Country Club is a must, excellent food and rooms. (Invitation by a member required.)