PAEM-102 a
TOUR2 THREE WEEKS PILGRIMAGE TOUR
TWO WEEKS PILGRIMAGE TOUR
PAEM-101
TOUR
1st Day 2nd Day
3rd Day through 5th Day
6th Day
7th Day 8th Day
9th Day 1 Oth Day
11th Day
12th Day through 14th Day
15th Day 16th Day
1st Day 2nd Day
3rd Day through 4th Day
5th Day
6th Day through 8th Day
9th Day
1 Oth Day 11th Day
12th Day
13th Day
NEW YORK — Leave by Clipper.
LISBON — Arrive Lisbon. You will be met and assisted in transfer to your hotel.
IN LISBON — The picturesque Portuguese capital with its beautiful harbor surrounded by terraced hills. A morning tour of the city visiting the Rock Garden, Our Lady of the Mountain and the Church of San Antonio. The next day you will take an excursion to Fatima, where The Blessed Virgin appeared in 1917. After visiting the Shrine and the Tomb of the Little Shepherds, return to Lisbon in the evening.
LISBON-ROME — Leave Lisbon by Pan-American World Airways Clipper for Rome.
IN ROME — The World Center of Christendom, where can be admired side by side the best examples of the might of Antiquity and of the spirituality of Christianity. The two-day sightseeing program will include visits to the Vatican, the Sistine Chapel, St. Peter’s Cathedral, Basilica of St. Mary Major, St. John Lateran, the Colosseum and the Roman Forum.
While in Rome arrangements should be made to obtain an audience with the Holy Father.
LORETO — Leave Rome by morning train to Ancona. In the afternoon a trip to Loreto will be made to visit the Casa Santa, the Holy House where The Blessed Virgin was born, and the Basilica and Sacristy of St. Mark.
TO MILAN — Continue by afternoon train to Milan.
IN MILAN — The thriving commercial and industrial capital of Italy.
A morning tour of the city will include a visit to the remarkable Gothic Cathedral where St. Charles Borromeo is buried and to the Church of Sta. Maria Delle Grazie to view Leonardo’s famous "Last Supper”.
LYONS — Leave Milan by morning train through the Mt. Cenis Tunnel to Lyons. The oldest Diocese of France and seat of the Cardinal Primate of Gaul.
PARAY LE MONIAL — A full day excursion by rail and motorcoach will take you to Paray Le Monial to visit
NEW YORK — Leave via Pan American World Airways Clipper.
ROME — Arrive Rome. You will be met and transferred to your hotel.
IN ROME — The Eternal City of the ancient Caesars and today the spiritual Center of Christendom.
The sightseeing program will cover the Vatican and St. Peter’s Cathedral, the Basilica of St. Mary Major and the ruins of the majestic Roman Forum as well as other points of interest.
PISA-GENOA — Leave Rome by morning train to Pisa. A brief stop-over will enable you to see the famous Leaning Tower, the Cathedral and the Baptistery. Continue in the afternoon to Genoa.
GENOA-NICE — Proceed by morning motorcoach along the spectacular Riviera to Nice.
IN NICE — The leading city of the Cote D’Azur.
An afternoon excursion will take you to the nearby resorts of Monte Carlo and Menton.
NICE-LOURDES — Leave Nice by morning train and proceed through southern France to Lourdes.
IN LOURDES — The world’s best known pilgrimage center, in the foothills of the rugged Pyrenees mountains. You will be free to visit the Grotto where The Holy Virgin appeared and the rigorous Way of the Cross built along the mountainside.
LOURDES-PARIS — Leave Lourdes by day train to Paris where you will arrive in the evening.
IN PARIS — The ever-lovely French capital with its wealth of artistic and religious landmarks.
A full day orientation tour of the city will include visits to Notre Dame Cathedral, the Sainte Chapelle, the Sacre Coeur Basilica and other well-known monuments. On another day rail tickets will be provided for a trip to Lisieux to visit the Basilica and the Carmelite Convent where Ste. Theresa spent her life.
HOMEWARD BOUND — Leave Paris by Clipper. NEW YORK —Arrive.
the Basilica, Universal Sanctuary of Devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, and the Convent of the Visitation with its relics of Ste. Marguerite Mary. Return to Lyons by way of Cluny, stopping to visit the Abbey which in the Middle Ages was one of the centers of Christian teaching.
14th Day AVIGNON — Leave Lyons by morning train down the Rhone Valley to Avignon.
In the afternoon visit the imposing Palace where the Popes resided in the XIV Century.
15th Day LOURDES — Continue by day train along the Medi-
and terranean to Lourdes, the great pilgrimage center in the
16th Day foothills of the Pyrenees mountains.
16th day free for independent activity.
The Grotto where The Blessed Virgin appeared should be visited as well as the rigorous Way of the Cross built up the mountainside.
17th Day LOURDES-PARIS — After an excursion through the Pyrenees to Gavarnie, leave Lourdes by overnight sleeper train to Paris.
18th Day IN PARIS — The lovely French capital with the wide variety of its contrasting aspects, its broad avenues and
21st Day picturesque side-streets, its smart shops and tiny sidewalk cafes, its many churches and innumerable museums.
A full day orientation tour will take you to Notre Dame Cathedral, the Sainte Chapelle, the Arch of Triumph, the Louvre Palace, and the Sacre Coeur Basilica.
An excursion will also be provided to Versailles to visit the famous palace, and, on another day, rail tickets will be provided for a trip to Lisieux to visit the Basilica and the Carmelite Convent where St. Theresa spent her life and died.
22nd Day BON VOYAGE — Leave Paris by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
23rd Day NEW YORK — Arrive.
FOUR WEEKS PILGRIMAGE TOUR
1st Day NEW YORK—-Depart by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
2nd Day PARIS — Arrive. Transfer to hotel.
3rd Day IN PARIS — The great French capital, with its lovely through parks, broad boulevards and sidewalk-cafes. The sight-6th Day seeing will include among other landmarks visits to the Madeleine Church, the Sacre Coeur Church, the Ste. Chapelle and Notre Dame Cathedral.
A full day excursion will also be taken to see Chartre’s famous Cathedral and an afternoon tour to Versailles will enable you to admire King Louis XVI’s Palace.
7th Day POITIERS — Leave Paris by morning train to Poitiers where you can visit the Xllth Century Cathedral built partly in Gothic, partly in Romanesque style.
8th Day LOURDES — Continue by late morning train to Lourdes, the most renowned pilgrimage center of Europe, in the 9th Day foothills of the Pyrenees mountains.
Time at your disposal to visit the Grotto, where The Blessed Virgin appeared in 1858 and the Way of the Cross built on the mountainside.
10th Day TO CANNES — Leave by morning train to Cannes.
11th Day IN CANNES — The fashionable resort on the French Riviera.
A half day excursion to Vence will include a visit to the Chapel decorated by famed painter, Matisse.
12th Day TO ROME VIA THE RIVIERA — Leave Cannes by morning train to Rome, traveling along the beautiful French and Italian Riviera.
13th Day IN ROME — The sightseeing program will include visits to the Vatican, St. Peter’s Cathedral, St. Paul's
17th Day Outside the Walls, St. Mary Major, the Catacombs and St. John Lateran as well as to the Roman Forum and the Colosseum.
While in Rome arrangements should be made to obtain an audience with the Holy Father.
18th Day ASSISI — Leave Rome by motorcoach and proceed through the Apenine Hills to Assisi, the birthplace of St. Francis. In the afternoon visits can be made to the Basilica and to the Church of Our Lady of the Angels.
19th Day PERUGIA — Continue by motorcoach via Perugia and the Hills of Tuscany to Florence, the lovely capital of the Medicis.
2Oth Day FLORENCE — Visiting among other points of interest the Cathedral, the Pitti Gallery, the Church of Santa Croce, the Baptistery and the Ponte Vecchio.
21st Day MILAN — Leave Florence by train to Milan.
In the afternoon a visit can be made to the beautiful Gothic Cathedral and the Tomb of St. Charles Borromeo.
22nd Day LUCERNE — Leave by train for the scenic trip through the Lake District and the Alps to Lucerne, the renowned
23rd Day Swiss resort city.
2nd morning at leisure. In the afternoon an excursion will be made to the nearby village of Einsiedeln to visit the Benedictine Monastery and the Cathedral.
24th Day GENEVA — By train via Berne to Geneva, the former seat of the League of Nations.
25th Day TO GRENOBLE — Continue by motorcoach through the Alps of Savoy to Grenoble.
26th Day IN GRENOBLE — A full day rail and motorcoach excursion will be made through the Alps to La Salette to visit the well known pilgrimage center.
27th Day LYONS — Leave Grenoble by morning train to Lyons, the seat of the Cardinal Primate of Gaul.
28th Day PARAY-LE-MONIAL — An excursion by rail and motorcoach will take you to Paray-le-Monial to visit the Abbey-Church dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and the Convent where Ste. Marguerite Mary is buried. Continue in the afternoon to Cluny to visit the famous Romanesque Abbey which was once one of the leading centers of Christian culture.
29fh Day PARIS — Leave Lyons by morning train to Paris.
Rail tickets will be provided for a trip to Lisieux to visit
30th Day the Basilica and the Convent where Ste. Theresa of the Child Jesus spent her life.
31st Day HOMEWARD BOUND — At leisure in Paris. Leave in the evening by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
32nd Day NEW YORK —Arrive.
EXTENSION TOUR "A" TO ENGLAND
1st Day PARIS-LONDON — Arrive London by air from Paris. 2nd Day IN LONDON — The interesting capital of the British through Commonwealth where the oldest traditions find their 3rd Day place in the hustle of modern life.
After a morning tour of the city visiting St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London, an excursion will be made to the Pilgrimage Friary at Aylesford now occupied by the Carmelite Order.
On the next day a full day excursion will be made through