Fly to FLORIDA with Pan Am.
And we’ll make you a deal. You’ll get one of Florida’s best car rental bargains from Alamo Rent-a-Car. A two-door Chevy Chevette with automatic transmission and air conditioning. For one week with unlimited mileage. For just $39. Now through February 7,1982*.
Alamo
Rent A Car
Florida
Wait, there’s more. When you pick up your car, you’ll get another bonus. Discount coupons to Sea World, Silver Springs/WeekiWachee, Circus World, Cypress Gardens, Busch Gardens, Wet and Wild and other popular Florida attractions. So your car will come in very handy.
Keep your car longer for $16 per day. Or $59 per
week. Unlimited mileage. That way you can get to see more of Florida and still save on your car rental. Just make your reservation for this special offer.
Here’s how it works. Be sure to make your car reservation in advance. You must pick up your car on the day you arrive. Present your Pan Am boarding pass to Alamo to get this special rate. Gas, optional insurances and taxes are extra. Drop-off charges, if any, are not included.
If a Chevy Chevette is not available when you arrive, you’ll receive a similar size car at the same rate.
* Excluding the period between December 18 and December 28,1981.
So come on. You could be soaking up a lot of Florida sun right now. We’ll take you to Miami, Orlando, Ft. Lauderdale, Tampa/St. Pete, West Palm Beach, Sarasota/Bradenton, Fort Myers or Jacksonville. And when you take advantage of our rental car deal, you’ll get to see a lot more sights in a lot more places.. .at your own pace.
Keep this date in mind. February 7,1982, is the last day you can pick up your car and still get this low rate. So take advantage of this offer and spend a wonderful week or more seeing Florida your way.
Fly Pan Am direct to Florida from New York, Washington, D.C., New Orleans, Houston,
Los Angeles and San Francisco. Convenient connections from Seattle/Tacoma, Detroit,
Las Vegas, San Diego and Phoenix.
Reservations are easy. Just call your Travel Agent, Corporate Travel Department or Pan Am. They’ll have you on your way in no time.
We’ll get you there with style. When you fly Pan Am, you’ll be getting our best. Both on the ground and in the air. So you can start enjoying your vacation long before you land. That’s the Pan Am tradition.
Check our fare before you go. You’ll find you can save a lot. And with a car for one week for $39 with unlimited mileage, plus those special discounts to Florida’s great attractions, you just can’t miss. Make this the winter you take yourself to Florida. With Pan Am.