IT’S A WONDERFUL TOWN
So goes the old Broadway song—and New York’s still as wonderful an experience for visitors as it was 350 years ago, when this northeastern city at the mouth of the great Hudson River was called New Amsterdam. In those days the island of Manhattan was so sweet with flowers, Dutch sailors could smell its fragrance 50 miles out to sea. Now, as you approach it, Manhattan signals itself with soaring skyscrapers by day and millions of lights by night.
Draw nearer, and you begin to feel New York’s famous “electricity”-—an incessant throb of activity, speed and excitement. This is a city which never sleeps, never slows down. Spend a week, or a year, and you’ll not have one idle moment. Come back as often as you like: each time you’ll find a different city.
In summer, sunshine glitters on the steel shafts of a thousand skyscrapers; Wall Street executives change into straw hats and pale blue seersucker suits; the parks are full of live jazz, free Shakespeare, and open-air opera at night; the beaches (yes, beaches—the metropolitan area has 55 miles-110 km-of them!) are bikini-dotted; all Long Island Sound bristles with yachts; and the lush suburbs of the “Tristate Area”—New York, Connecticut and New Jersey—doze peacefully, their quiet disturbed only by the tinkle of ice-cream wagons, the splash of swimming pools, and the buzzing of lawn mowers. (Average maximum and minimum temperatures, June-August: 82°-65°F.; 29°-18°C.).
Fall, that most beautiful of American seasons, unofficially begins after Labour Day (the first Monday in September) although it may still seem like summer to you. Gradually, as waves of colour begin to spread across the forested hillsides of New York and New Jersey, the air in the city turns crisper. Sandals give way to Gucci loafers along Fifth Avenue, one of the world’s great shopping thoroughfares, and daytime temperatures sink to 60°-50°F. (19°-10°C. range).
As winter approaches, stores bulge with pre-Christmas merchandise; new shows open on Broadway almost daily; ice-skaters whirl and glide under Rockefeller Centre’s glittering towers, and the smell of roast chestnuts hangs in the air. The weather doesn’t get really cold until New Year’s Day (although there are occasional cold snaps when temperatures plummet below freezing). From January to April the mercury hovers between 42° and 29°F. (1.1°-1.6°C.) and the air tingles—but it’s a dry, sharp cold that invigorates, and makes the city’s pace seem even faster. Snow-falls in the metropolitan area are rare—maybe only two or three a season—but the nearby ski slopes of New York State and hillsides of New Jersey are sparkling white through March.
Come April, the sun gathers warmth, and daffodils sprout by the thousands in Central Park. Spring (average temperatures 65°-48°F., 18°-9°C.) is the shortest season.
NEW YORK CITY NEW YORK CITY
New York and New Jersey
New York and New Jersey

USTS 768E Litho in U.S.A.
OCTOBER 1977
res trav*4-
Central
Park
Bronx
Jersey
Queens
Brooklyn
Staten
Island
Queen sboro's Bridge
To La Guardia And Kennedy Airport ,
ment
Queens Midtown Tunnel^
To La Guardia And Kennedy^. Airport
HOBOKEN
Skyway
To N.J. Turnpike and Newark Airport
District'
inancia I
Queens
BROOKLYN
, Long ) Island
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, IT’S AMERICA’S “BIG APPLE”
///
Atlantic Ocean
NORTH BERGEN
Lincoln v Tunnel
The Five Boro’s of New York City
UNION
CITY
QUEENS
Holland Tunnel
Brooklyn ' Battery Tunnel
LOWER MANHATTAN
1	City Hall
2	World Trade Centre
3	New York Stock Exchange
4	Wall Street
5	Battery Park
6	Staten Island Ferry
7	Statue of Liberty
8	Chinatown
9	Greenwich Village
10	Washington Square
11	Empire State Building
12	Madison Square Garden
13	Pennsylvania Station
14	N.Y. Convention & Visitors Bureau
15	Grand Central Station
16	N.Y. Public Library
17	Times Square
18	Theatre District
19	N.Y. City Centre Theatre
20	Rockefeller Centre
21	S. Patrick’s Cathedral
22	Carnegie Hall
23	To Guggenheim Museum
Whitney Museum Metropolitan Museum of Art Museum of the City of New York
24	Lincoln Centre for The Performing Arts
25	Port Authority Bus Terminal
26	Circle Line tour dock
27	United Nations
In show business parlance, New York has always been known as “the Big Apple”—the ultimate in size, excitement, and achievement. New York is the largest city in the United States, and the third largest in the world. Its eight million inhabitants make it the most cosmopolitan of cities. It was discovered by a Florentine commanding a French fleet, and settled by an Englishman sailing for the Dutch. Since then it has welcomed people from all over the world. It has 324,000 Germans, and 390,000 Poles. Greeks, Scots, Hungarians, Irish, Italians and Rumanians number in the tens of thousands. It’s not so much a melting pot as a blast furnace. That’s what makes the city so special—and fascinating.
HOW TO GET AROUND
As you’ll see on the map opposite, New York consists of five boroughs—Queens, Brooklyn, the Bronx, Staten Island, and the central island of Manhattan, which lies in the mouth of the Hudson River. Despite its size, New York is an easy city to explore. Usually, Avenues run north and south and Streets east and west. Fifth Avenue is the dividing line between the East Side and West Side. First Avenue, running parallel to the East River, is matched by Twelfth Avenue, running parallel to the Hudson.
Most north-south avenues and all principal east-west streets, such as 14th, 23rd, 34th, 42nd, 49th, 50th and 57th, have bus lines. The fare is 50 cents in exact change. You pay upon entering.
There are three interconnected underground subway train lines, which link all the boroughs except Staten Island. In Manhattan, most routes run north and south. A subway token for the platform turnstile costs 50 cents and is purchased at station entrances. You can obtain a free subway route map at any station or at the Convention & Visitors Bureau. Taxicabs often wait outside the larger hotels or can be hailed on the streets if their rooftop light is on. Fares begin at 75 cents forthc first 1/7 mile, increasing by 10 cents for each additional 1/7 mile. 1/7 mile equals approximately 1/4 kilometre. To rent a car, look under “Car Rentals” in the Classified Telephone Directory.
INFORMATION
New York Convention & Visitors Bureau, 90 East 42nd Street, Tel: 687-1300. Information, free maps and folders in French, Spanish, German, Italian, Japanese. Free tickets to television shows. Daily, 9 a.m.-6 p.m.
New York City Information Centre, Times Square at 42nd Street, Tel: 221-9869. Information, free folders, Monday-Sunday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.
Rockefeller Centre Visitors Information, 30 Rockefeller Plaza at 49th St. near Fifth Ave., Tel: 489-2947. Information, multi-lingual clerks. Monday-Sunday, 9:30 a.m.-5:30 p.m. Tour information, Tel: 489-2950.
Kennedy International Airport, International Arrivals Building; New York Port Authority Information Centre. Daily, 8 a.m.-midnight.