•Jr
The Metropolitan Opera House in New York’s Lincoln Centre.
Concerts at Lincoln Centre (on Broadway between W. 62nd and W. 66th Streets) where there is a complex of concert halls and theatres including the Metropolitan Opera House (September-May), other offerings during spring and summer; the New York City Opera (winter and spring seasons, alternating with New York City Ballet and the American Ballet Theatre); Vivian Beaumont Theatre; Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall (concerts all year round); and the Damrosch Band Shell (open-air concerts in summer).
Carnegie Hall, at 57th Street and 7th Avenue has the most perfect acoustics in town. Symphony concerts and recitals presented throughout the fall, winter, and spring seasons. Nearby New York City Centre, at 131 West 55th Street, has two seasons yearly by the City Centre/Joffrey Ballet Company, plus other touring groups specialising in dance and mime.
Jazz, Rock, Banjo and Folk Music. Greenwich Village. is the primary source of such live entertainment, but new places appear continually all over town. Very informal, usually inexpensive.
NIGHT LIFE AND SPORTS EVENTS Nightclubs. “Supper clubs” are plush places for dinner or late supper, with two shows nightly by a famous entertainer. Expensive; admission is usually in the form of a “cover charge” of $5.00 to $10.00 per person. Drinks and food are additional; the tab can run to more than $50.00 a couple. Most other nightclubs have “mini-mums” of $5.00 to $10.00, which means you are obliged to spend at least that much on food and drink while dancing or watching the show.
“Singles” Bars. So-called because they are favourite meeting places of young unmarried New Yorkers, but there is no restriction as to age or status. Mostly located on the Upper East Side between East 59th and 86th Streets, on 3rd, 2nd, and 1st Avenues. Moderate prices for food and drink, loud recorded music.
Bars and Lounges. Many stay open until 4 a.m. A Scotch and soda costs $1.75 average, more in luxurious cocktail lounges. Draught (draft) beer in a neighbourhood pub, about $1.00.
“Belly Belt” 8th Avenue between 27th and 30th Streets, a predominantly Greek area where Middle Eastern restaurants and nightspots feature belly dancers and bouzouki bands nightly. Average weekend minimum, $5.00.
•Madison Square Garden. 7th Avenue between 31st and 33rd Streets. Massive new arena/entertainment centre specialising in sports events and circus spectaculars. Ice-hockey, basketball, horse shows, tennis, track and field contests, and (occasionally) a world championship boxing bout. Ticket prices: $6.00 and up.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
New York’s 10,000 restaurants make it the dining capital of the nation—if not the world, since it is possible to enjoy a truly international spectrum of cuisines here. For example, along just one stretch of Broadway on the Upper West Side, there is a collection of restaurants featuring authentic French, Spanish, Szechuan, Indian, Thai, Turkish, Jewish, and Cuban dishes, plus staple American fare such as steaks, seafood, and hamburgers. German, Czech, and Hungarian restaurants can be found in Yorkville (3rd and 2nd Avenues around East 86th Street), Italian and Chinese restaurants in Little Italy and Chinatown (next door neighbours downtown), Greek and Armenian restaurants in the mid-30s west and east of Fifth Avenue. In all these areas you can eat considerably more cheaply than in the glossy “midtown belt” north of 42nd Street and south of 72nd Street. Greenwich Village (Mexican, Italian, and Spanish restaurants predominantly) can be almost as expensive as midtown.
Haute Cuisine — lavish and magnificent food in sumptuous settings—is available in New York’s many classic French restaurants, which are located mainly in the East 50s and 60s between 5th and 3rd Avenues. Their wine cellars compare with the best of Europe, plus the added attraction of fine California vintages. This area also contains the city’s top Italian and Japanese restaurants, along with several first class steak and seafood houses. Reservations are necessary. Be prepared to spend at least $50.00 for dinner for two. You can eat just as well, and less expensively, if you visit the same restaurant during the day, when a prix-fixe lunch can be as low as $7.50, and rarely more than $12.00.
“Fast Food” This uniquely American mode of eating can be experienced in New York’s countless delicatessens and cafeterias. The food may not be subtle, but it’s plentiful and cheap. Sample fare: the hamburger—■ grilled, double-minced beef served on a bun with a variety of garnishes—onion, bacon, tomato, lettuce, and cheese — plus a free pickled gherkin, relishes, and “French fries” (potato chips). Cost ranges between 45
cents and $2.00. The hot dog is a version of the German frankfurter served in a long bun with mustard and sauerkraut. A street-vendor specialty, about 45 cents. Pizza is an Italian-American invention: a thin, flat, freshly-baked pie topped with tomato sauce, sausages, spices, and cheese. About 50 cents a slice.
Coffee Shops, Drugstores, and Lunch Counters. You may sit at a counter and be waited on, serve yourself at coin-operated windows, or stand in cafeteria lines and choose your own table. Perhaps the most popular quick lunch for New Yorkers is the overstuffed meat sandwich — corned beef, roast beef, and pastrami — served on rye bread with a pickle and a cup of coffee. For breakfast you can have a sweet roll and coffee, or eggs and bacon, fried potatoes, toast, juice and coffee. Generally under $2.50.
Information. A free guide to dining out in New York is available from the Convention & Visitors Bureau. CUE Magazine provides weekly listings of city and suburban restaurants, including specialities and prices. Bookstores sell a wide range of paperback guides with more detailed descriptions and appraisals.
SHOPPING
You will find an incomparable variety of goods and services in New York City—both in the elegant stores along Fifth Avenue and in Herald Square, and in the smart uptown boutiques. There are ethnic goods in Chinatown, Little Italy, and Yorkville; bargains galore on Orchard Street; and an array of antiques, jewellery, leather and “freaky” fashions catering to every imaginable taste in Greenwich Village. Also there are many popular galleries, bookstores, art shows, and flea markets. The list of stores below is a mere sampling of the shoppers’ paradise which is New York.
Major Department Stores
Korvettes, 5th Avenue at 47th Street; 34th Street and Herald Square; 45th Street between Lexington and 3rd Avenues.
B. Altman & Co., 5th Avenue at 34th Street. Bloomingdale’s, Lexington Avenue at 59th Street. Gimbels, 33rd Street & Broadway; 125 East 86th Street. Macy’s, 34th Street and Broadway.
Ohrbach’s, 5 West 34th Street.
Mays, 14th Street at Broadway.
Saks, 5th Avenue at 50th Street.
Lord and Taylor, 5th Avenue at 39th Street.
Alexanders, Lexington Avenue at 59th Street.
Discount Stores: In New York City, discounts can be found on almost every item if one knows where to look. Discount stores offer everyday values which are comparable to the best bargains offered in heavily advertised “special sales” at the big-name stores. Sample bargain areas for particular merchandise:
Books, remaindered and overstock — West 42nd Street area between 5th and 7th Avenues.
Books, secondhand — 4th Avenue from East 8th Street to East 13th Street; East 59th Street from Madison Avenue to 3rd Avenue.
Brass and Copper Goods — Allen Street between Delancey and Canal Streets.
Fabrics—Orchard Street (open Sundays). Located on Lower East Side.
Furs — excellent used garments on West 57th Street between 6th and 7th Avenues.
Paris Originals — Ohrbach’s, 5 West 34th Street.
Radios, Fli-Fi, TV parts and equipment—Cortland Street, west of Broadway and surrounding streets.
Records—West 49th Street between Broadway and 8th Avenue.
Shoes — Orchard Street and lower 6th Avenue.
Sporting Goods — West 42nd Street between 6th Avenue and Times Square.
Flea Markets and Antiques: The New York Flea Market, 25th Street and 6th Avenue, is held on Sundays, outdoors, from mid-September through mid-October, and mid-April through July 4th weekend. About 100 dealers, artisans, artists and collectors. Hours: noon-7 p.m. weather permitting. Antiques can be.found at the Antique Centre of America, 415 East 53rd Street, and 410 East 54th Street (110 shops), also at The Manhattan Art and Antiques Centre, 1050 Second Avenue (three floors of antique furnishings, objet d’art, and fine art).
Shopping Hours: Stores generally open at 10 a.m. Closing times vary from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Many stores are open late on Mondays, Thursdays, or both.
Language Facilities: Larger department stores such as Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s maintain information booths on the ground floors with multi-lingual staffs.
Shopper’s Bus Ticket—For $1.00, this special ticket lets you ride on as many buses as you wish within the midtown area of 32nd to 59th Streets and 3rd to 8th Avenues. Tickets available daily on any bus, Monday-Wednesday, Friday: 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Thursday: same hours, also 6:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.; Saturday 9:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
ACCOMMODATION (Partial listing only)
Inexpensive*
Coliseum House, 228 West 71st Street.
Diplomat, 108 West 43 Street.
Earle, Washington Square Park, N.W.
Excelsior, 45 West 81st Street.
Martha Washington, 30 East 30th Street.
Penn Terminal, 215 West 34th Street.
Pickwick Arms, 230 East 51st Street.
Rio, 132 West 47th Street.
Rosoff's, 147 West 43rd Street.
Stanford, 43 West 32nd Street.
York, 488 7th Avenue.
YMCA—Vanderbilt Branch (co-ed), 224 East 47th Street.
YMCA—William Sloane House (co-ed), 356 West 34th Street.
YMCA—West Side (co-ed), 5 West 63rd Street.
Moderate*
Abbey Victoria, 7th Avenue and 51st Street.
Barbizon for Women, 140 East 63rd Street.
Century-Paramount, 235 West 46th Street.
Empire, Broadway and 63rd Street.
George Washington, Lexington Avenue and 23rd Street.
Gorham, 136 West 55th Street.
Henry Hudson, 353 W. 57th St.
Mansfield, 12 West 44th Street.
Queens Motel, 64-11 Queens Blvd., Queens.
Seymour, 50 West 45th Street.
Taft, 7th Avenue and 50th Street.
Times Square Motor Hotel, 255 West 43rd Street.
Tudor, 304 East 42nd Street.
Wellington, 55th Street and 7th Avenue.
Deluxe*
Adams, 2 East 86th Street.
Algonquin, 59 West 44th Street.
Alrae, 37 East 64th Street.
Americana, 52nd Street and 7th Avenue.
American City Squire Motor Inn, 51st Street and 7th Avenue. Barbizon-Plaza, 106 Central Park South.
Barclay, 111 East 48th Street.
Bedford, 118 East 40th Street.
Berkshire, 21 East 52nd Street.
Beverly, Lexington Avenue and 50th Street.
Biltmore, Madison Avenue at 43rd Street.
Blackstone, 50 East 58th Street.
Doral Inn, Lexington Avenue at 49th Street.
Doral Park Avenue, 70 Park Avenue.
Dorset, 30 West 54th Street.
Gramercy Park, Lexington Avenue and 21st Street.
Holiday Inn—Coliseum, 440 West 57th Street.
Howard Johnson’s Motor Lodge, 8th Avenue and 51st Street. International, JFK International Airport, Jamaica, Queens.
Kitano, 66 Park Avenue at 38th Street.
Loews Drake, 440 Park Avenue at 56th Street.
Loews Summit of New York, Lexington Avenue at 51st Street. Loews Warwick, 65 West 54th Street.
Lowell, 28 East 63rd Street.
Marriott's Essex House, 160 Central Park South.
Mayfair House, 610 Park Avenue.
Mayflower, Central Park West at 61st Street.
Navarro, 112 Central Park South.
New York Hilton, 6th Avenue at 54th Street.
New York Sheraton, 7th Avenue at 56th Street.
Park Lane, 36 Central Park South.
Pierre, 5th Avenue at 61st Street.
Plaza, 5th Avenue at 59th Street.
Ramada Inn, 8th Avenue at 48th Street.
Regency, Park Avenue and 61st Street.
Roger Smith, 501 Lexington Avenue and 47th Street.
Roosevelt, Madison Avenue at 45th Street.
Royalton, 44 West 44th Street.
Salisbury, 123 West 57th Street.
San Carlos, 150 East 50th Street.
Sheraton Motor Inn, 520 12th Avenue.
Sheraton-Russell, 45 Park Avenue and 37th Street.
Skyline Motor inn, 49th Street and 10th Avenue.
Stanhope, 995 Fifth Avenue.
Statler Hilton, 401 7th Avenue at 33rd Street.
St. Moritz, 50 Central Park South.
St. Regis-Sheraton, 5th Avenue at 55th Street.
TraveLodge, 515 West 42nd Street.
Tuscany, 39th Street, East of Park Avenue.
United Nations Plaza, One United Nations Plaza (corner 44th Street and 1st Avenue).
Waldorf-Astoria, Park Avehue at 50th Street.
Westbury, 69th Street and Madison Avenue.
Windsor, 100 West 58th Street.
Wyndham, 42 West 58th Street.
•Price Key:
Inexpensive — single, $9.00—$17.00; twin, $12.00—$22.00 Moderate — single, $18.00—$23.00; twin, $23.00—$31.00 Deluxe — single, $28.00 and up; twin, $32.00 and up.
Note: the hotel prices have been coded according to their lowest room rates. In some instances, particularly the moderate category, hotel prices may run from the moderate to the deluxe.
GETTING OUT OF TOWN
Something that you may be surprised to discover is that some of the most dramatically beautiful country in North America lies within easy reach of Manhattan. All you need is an International Driver’s License to take advantage of the special rates offered by dozens of rental companies in and around the city.
AMTRAK (the new nationwide railway network) runs the famous Lake Shore Limited train north from New York, up the scenic Hudson Valley to Albany, then west across Upper New York State to Buffalo. (9 hours)
Boat Cruises: Perhaps the most romantic way to explore the steep-cliffed forested Hudson Valley is the way Admiral Hudson himself did in 1609: by boat. A delightful 9-hour cruise is operated June-September from Pier 81, West 41st Street, to Poughkeepsie, stopping at Bear Mountain State Park and West Point Military Academy. Round trip, $7.00.
HUDSON VALLEY AND UPSTATE NEW YORK
Moving north up the left bank of the Hudson River, you soon come to Tarrytown, the gothic, ivy-hung home of author Washington Irving. Tarrytown, in its peaceful early-nineteenth-century days, was the “Sleepy Hollow” Irving immortalized, and the rolling Catskill Mountains across the water were the scene of his unforgettable “Legend of Rip Van Winkle.”
As you’ll see by all the Dutch names hereabout and further up the Hudson Valley, this is historic country: here New Amsterdam’s first settlers set up their country estates (patroons) and fur-trading posts. One of the most famous Dutch names is that of Roosevelt: Hyde Park, off Route 9, was the birthplace and home of our 32nd President. (Admission 50 cents; children under 16, free.) complex of government buildings (The Empire State Plaza) and a neoclassical style Capitol. North of here is Saratoga Springs, one of the state’s most beautiful 19th-century towns, a spa, horseracing centre, and performing arts centre all rolled into one. It’s also the summer home of the New York City Ballet.
Route 87 continues north to the enormous, lake-studded Adirondacks Forest Preserve—5 Vi million acres
NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY
Niagara
Falls
Lake
George
Saratoga
Springs
Schenectady
LONG ISLAND
Montauk
Point
of rolling mountains, inhabited by deer, bears and beavers. Down in the foothills, Lake George is a popular family vacation resort, with numerous inexpensive motels, beaches, fishing and waterskiing facilities. Scenic cruises available here and on other Adirondack lakes, such as Placid and Saranac ($2.50-$5.50). Fort Ticon-deroga, overlooking the latter, is a French, Indian, and Revolutionary War fortress ($2.00).
The western part of New York State is equally beautiful, though more cultivated, than the Adirondacks. Magnificent champagne vineyards stripe the steep shores of the Finger Lakes—landscape which reminds many European visitors of the Rhine Valley. There are winery tours, and a wine museum, at Hammondsport on Lake Keuka (FREE). To the south is Corning, whose Glass Centre is one of the finest industrial showplaces in the country. Exhibits date back to 1500 B.C. Live glass-blowing demonstrations, Hall of Science, Western Art Gallery. (FREE).
BUFFALO/NIAGARA FALLS
BUFFALO
Second-largest city in New York State, and a principal Lake Erie port, Buffalo is mainly industrial, but its strategic location makes it a major tourist centre too. Huge grain elevators and hydro-electric plants alternate with quiet treelined streets and 3000 acres of parks and beaches. Buffalo has a fine Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra, several theatres and summer playhouses.
Sightseeing attractions in and around town include Wilcox Mansion National Historic Site, scene of President Theodore Roosevelt’s first Inauguration; Buffalo Museum of Science (FREE); the internationally renowned Albright-Knox Gallery of avante-garde art; Buffalo and Erie County Historical Society (Indian and pioneer exhibits: FREE); Arcade and Attica Railroad (antique locomotives, steam-train excursions, $1.25-$2.50); The American Native Center for the Living Arts on the Tuscarora Indian Reservation in nearby Lewiston: (FREE); The Shea’s Buffalo Theater; the Allentown Village area (a restored 19th Century neighborhood); and the Buffalo Zoo (adults, $1.00, children, 35 cents).
NIAGARA FALLS
Niagara Falls, an hour’s drive or easy bus ride, 20 mi. (32 km), from Buffalo, is Northeast America’s greatest natural spectacle. 200.000 cubic feet of water a second thunder over two cataracts separating the United States from Canada. Ever since Father Hennepin discovered them in 1678, the mystic beauty of the Falls has attracted explorers, honeymooners, scientists, tightrope walkers, and even barrel-riders—as well as millions of visitors like yourself. Sightseeing facilities on both the American and Canadian sides (see “Border Regulations” below) are inexpensive. A helicopter ride costs $7.00 and the “Maid of the Mist” riverboat cruises within feet of the Falls for $3.00 (late May-early October). Panorama from Pospect Tower (282 feet) is 25 cents; Cave of the Winds catwalk to base of Bridal Veil Falls $2.50, Viewmobile Train $1.00.
Other attractions of interest in the Niagara area include the Our Lady of Fatima Shrine (FREE), and Old Fort Niagara (adults, $1.00; children, free).
TRANSPORTATION AND TERMINALS Air: Buffalo and Niagara Falls are served by Greater Buffalo Airport, 8 miles (14 km) east of town. Airport bus to Buffalo: $2.00; taxi, approx. $6.50. Airport bus to Niagara Falls, $2.50; taxi, approx. $14.00.
Rail: New York Central Terminal, Paderewski Avenue, Buffalo. Tel: 856-6800.
Interstate Bus: Greyhound Lines, 672 Main Street, Tel: 856-2700. Empire State Trailways, 663 Main Street, Tel: 852-1750.
Local Bus: Service to and from Niagara Falls is excellent and frequent. City rates: 45 cents plus 5 cents for transfer.
LOCAL INFORMATION
Buffalo Convention and Visitors Bureau, 164 Franklin Street, Tel: 854-2642; Greater Niagara Vacationland, 238 Main Street, Buffalo, Tel. 852-5400.
Border Regulations: Should you, as a foreign visitor, wish to cross over to the Canadian side of the Falls, you must have a multiple-entry visa as well as your passport. Car toll across international “Peace Bridge”, 35L
Cape May
NEW JERSEY
Although New Jersey is the most populous state in America, it’s still over 65% farmland and forest. The northern parts of the state are natural and mountainous; the southern part is flat and sandy, with mile after mile of beaches and resort areas. Huge oil refineries, port facilities, and high-rise apartment buildings crowd the banks of the Hudson opposite New York City; quiet clapboard villages and parks fringe the Delaware River, New Jersey’s border with Pennsylvania.
The state is small, by American standards; only 160 mi. (267 km) from south to north, and 63 mi. (105 km) wide at its widest point. If you travel by car, you can explore most of it in three days, thanks to a network of splendid highways and turnpikes. Two of these, the inland New Jersey Turnpike (Interstate 95) and the coastal Garden State Parkway, are linked to New York City by the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels, and by the George Washington Bridge, gateway to Palisades State Park. (The latter has stupendous clifftop views of Manhattan, the Bronx, and Westchester.)
WEST ORANGE, PRINCETON, AND TRENTON
Three of the greatest men in history have immortalized these New Jersey towns, linked by an easy day’s drive out of New York City. Thomas Edison National Historic Site, on Main Street and Lakeside Avenue in West Orange, features the Edison Laboratory (1877) where the inventor had his headquarters for 44 years. On display: the first gramophone, early incandescent lamps and motion picture equipment. Edison movies shown in a reconstruction of the world’s first movie studio. Glen-mont, the enormous mansion where Edison lived and died, can also be visited. Guided tours of the site daily except Christmas, New Year and Thanksgiving. Visits to the house are by reservation only. Admission, 50 cents.
Princeton, southwest on Route 1, is the home of the great university (1756) where Albert Einstein spent the last years of his life. Free student-guided tours take you to Einstein’s rooms at the Institute of Advanced Learning, and to other historic buildings on the 2,500 acre campus. (Advance request, Tel: 452-3603.)
Trenton, the state capital, is the scene of the American Revolutionary battle of December 26, 1776, when George Washington launched a surprise attack upon the city. Tours of the State House complex, including the Assembly, Senate Chambers, State Library and State Museum are available to groups upon written request. The Old Barracks, headquarters for Revolutionary British and German troups, is also in this area. 7 mi. (13 km) northwest on NJ 29 is Washington Crossing State Park, where the General made his legendary move across the Delaware during a Christmas snowstorm. 783 acres of riverside park and woodland. Open-air summer theatre.
Two girls on a bicycle at Atlantic City, New Jersey.
BEACHES OF NEW JERSEY
For thousands of Americans in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Delaware, New Jersey is “the Shore.” And for thousands of others who live in metropolitan New York, Long Island is the same. For the visitor, that means there are endless chains of glittering beaches and yacht basins and fishing piers stretching away both to the east and south of the New York Gateway.
New Jersey’s 122 mi. (204 km) Atlantic shore is the longest stretch of white sand in America, combed by the sun-warmed waters of the Gulf Stream. It begins in the south at Cape May, the state’s oldest coastal resort, dating back to 1766. Five Presidents, including Lincoln, have relaxed here. “Cape May diamonds” — perfectly polished pieces of quartz—can be found on the shores of Delaware Bay.
North of Cape May is Atlantic City, queen of New Jersey resorts. Its 6 mi. (10 km) Boardwalk Promenade can be explored on 19th-century Rolling Wicker chairs, built for two (now motorized) or a ride on a modern tram. Theatres, art centres and cafés line the Boardwalk on one side, a wide clean beach on the other.
Next major resort to the north is Asbury Park, which features a 4 mi. (6 km) boardwalk with shops and amusement piers. Then comes Sandy Hook, a 5 mi. (8 km) peninsula jutting into the blue waters of New York Bay. Preserved as a State Park, it includes a vast nature reserve where wild birds congregate in the thousands. Guided walks are conducted in the summer. Driving time from New York City: 1 hour.
BEACHES OF NEW YORK
New York’s beaches all lie to the east of the city. Nearest to Manhattan are: Coney Island (complete with amusement park and candy-floss machines), Brighton Beach, and Manhattan Beach. All can be reached by subway (“D” trains). Jacob Riis Park and Rockaway Beach are accessible from Queens and Brooklyn. By far the most popular beach for New Yorkers, however, is Jones Beach State Park—12 miles (20 km) of magnificent sand and breakers, fresh and salt water pools, restaurants, and an open-air theatre that stages musicals in summer. It’s no more than an hour’s drive from the city. The Long Island Rail Road has a combined rail/bus excursion operating out of Pennsylvania Station, and there are daily coach trips from the Port Authority Bus Terminal in summer, leaving at 9 a.m.
LONG ISLAND
The above-mentioned beaches are only a few of those that run along the north and south shores of Long Island. In all, there are 35 public beach areas, none of them more than three hours from midtown Manhattan. Note: some beaches, such as Fire Island National Seashore, can only be reached by ferry from the Long Island “mainland.”
INFORMATION
For details on fees, camping facilities, seasonal openings, and safety regulations, contact the following major beach authorities:
Long Island State Park Commission . . .(516)669-1000
Fire Island National Seashore.....(516) 289-4810
Suffolk County Department of Parks . .(516)567-1700 Nassau County Department of Parks . .(516) 292-4200 New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection ....................(609) 292-2885
PLEASE NOTE—The information and prices published (October 1977) in this booklet are, as far as possible, correct at the time of going to press. However, the United States Travel Service can accept no liability for errors, omissions or changes in prices.
FESTIVALS, SPORTS, AND ACTIVITIES
Festivals In America are like the sands of the sea In number. The following are a mere selection of the events scheduled by New York and New Jersey.
March 17 (New York City) St. Patrick’s Day Parade.
Easter Sunday (Atlantic City, N.J.) Sunrise service,
Easter Promenade.
Early May (Albany, N.Y.) “Tulip Queen" Parade and Flower Show. Late June-July 4th (New York City) Newport Jazz Festival.
Mid-July (Cherry Hill, N.J.) Miss New Jersey Pageant.
Early September (Atlantic City, N. J.) Miss America Pageant and Parade.
Mid-September (Trenton, N. J.) New Jersey State Fair.
Late September (Princeton, N.J.) University Football Classic. Mid-October (New York City) National Arts and Antiques Festival.
LONG RUN EVENTS
Late June-early August (Katonah, N.Y.) Caramoor Music Festival. Early July-late August (Saratoga, N.Y.) Music and Ballet Festival.
SPORTS EVENTS
Late March (Hunter Mountain, N.Y.) World Series of Skiing.
Early June (Belmont Park, N.Y.) Belmont Stakes (horseracing). Mid-July (Englishtown, N. J.) Summer Nationals (motor racing). Late August (Queens, New York City) Forest Hills Tennis Championship.
Early October (Watkins Glen, N.Y.) Grand Prix of U.S. (motor racing).
OUTDOOR ADVENTURES
Canoeing: outfitters in the Adirondacks provide 1-day or longer trips with equipment, food, and guides. Pack trips: popular In summer and fall in the Adirondacks and Catskill Mountains,
New York. Backpacking for hikers, exploring historic trails, Indian shelters, and Revolutionary battlefields, conducted In Ramapo Mountains, northwest of New York City. Deep-sea fishing boats can be chartered at Cape May, N. J.; Egg Harbor, N. J.;
Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Montauk, Long Island, N.Y.; and at many other Atlantic resort towns.