
Travelers Aid Society: 204 East 39th Street, Tel: OR 9-0200; John F. Kennedy International Airport, Tel: 656-4870; Port Authority Bus Terminal, 8th Avenue at 41st Street, Tel: LO 3-4493.
AIRPORT AND TERMINAL SERVICE
New York’s air gateway to the United States is John F. Kennedy International Airport. Most major airlines have their own separate terminals. The Main Lobby of the International Arrivals Building has an Information Desk, with multilingual personnel, open 24 hours a day. Also in the Main Lobby are multilingual Port Receptionists whose function is to assist you upon arrival. They are on duty from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m. daily all year round.
There is an express bus service from all arrival terminals to Manhattan’s Grand Central Terminal on 42nd Street and also to the East Side Terminal on 37th Street and 1st Avenue. Service operates between 5 a.m. and 11 p.m. ($3-$4). Other buses serve the major midtown hotels and Rockefeller Centre from 8 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. ($3-$4). Metered taxicabs from airport to midtown are available at all arrival terminals (fare averages $11.00 to $13.00). Limousine cars can be rented at the airport.
WHAT TO SEE AND DO IN MANHATTAN Empire State Building, Fifth Avenue at 34th Street: one of the most famous buildings in the world. 102 floors, 1,472 feet high. Observation platforms on 86th and 102nd floors. Daily, 9:30 a.m.-midnight. Adults, $1.70; children, 85 cents.
Rockefeller Centre, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues from 48th to 52nd Streets. Largest privately-owned business and entertainment centre in the world. The Lower Plaza is an outdoor cafe in summer, and an ice-skating rink in winter. Enormous murals decorate the lobby of the RCA Building. Guided tours from lobby of 30 Rockefeller Plaza: daily one-hour tours from 10:00 a.m.-4:45 p.m. include 70th floor observation roof. Adults, $2.25, students, $1.90, children, $1.40. Radio City Music Hall is the world’s largest cinema, seating 6000 for spectacular film and stage shows five times daily; reduced prices before noon. New York Experience Theatre, unique new auditorium in McGraw-Hill Building; permanent multi-screen feature on New York’s history and people with all its activity.
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Fifth Avenue at 50th Street. This Roman Catholic Church is a fine Gothic-style structure. Slender spires rising 330 feet appear dwarfed by surrounding skyscrapers.
United Nations, First Avenue at 42nd through 46th Streets. Slim modern structures designed by American, Wallace K. Harrison and an international design panel, in landscaped grounds. When available, tickets are issued free for General Assembly sessions. Interior enhanced by sculpture, paintings and tapestries given by world’s great artists. Tours at frequent intervals, 9:00 a.m.-4:45 p.m. daily. Adults, $2.00; children, $1.00. Children under 5 not admitted on tour. FREE admission to main halls of the building.
A buggy ride through Central Park, New York City.
Central Park, Fifth Avenue to Central Park West, from 59th to 110th Streets. A great parkland, with boating lake, zoo, winter ice-skating rink, swimming pool, fountain-side outdoor restaurants, gardens, open-air free summer theatres and concerts. Horse-drawn carriages may be rented at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue; bicycles for rent at boating lake; horses for hire at Claremont Riding Academy for 5 miles (8 km) of bridle paths. Open from dawn until sunset. Closed to auto traffic on weekends; also Tuesday and Wednesday evenings mid-May to September.
Lincoln Centre for the Performing Arts, Broadway between West 62nd through 66th Streets. An immense complex of white marble, built recently to provide a home for the city’s principal cultural groups. Designed by Wallace K. Harrison, Philip Johnson, Max Abrarno-vitz, Eero Saarinen and others. The spacious plaza with its splendid fountain is surrounded by the New York State Theatre, Avery Fisher Hall and the Metropolitan Opera House. Vivian Beaumont Theatre, the Juilliard School of Music, Alice Tully Hall, and the New York Public Library at Lincoln Centre are adjacent. Tours from Avery Fisher Hall, daily, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Adults, $2.95; students, $2.50; children, $1.95. Library is open Monday-Saturday, 10,a.m.-6 p.m. FREE.
Hayden Planetarium, Central Park West at 81st Street, 48 foot model of the solar system. Presentations, daily, Monday-Friday, 2 p.m., 3:30 p.m., Saturday, Sunday, on the hour, 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Adults, $2.35; under 18, $1.35.
Greenwich Village, South of 14th Street. The centre of Manhattan’s Bohemian life, with dozens of amusing cafes, coffee houses, curio shops, art and book stores.
Washington Square, at the south end of Fifth Avenue. Especially entertaining on weekends with ii..rromp-tu folk music concerts and strolling Greenwich Village residents. Lovely private dwellings on north side.
Chinatown, Mott, Pell and Doyer Streets on lower East Side. Colourful Chinese architecture, shops and
restaurants. The Chinese Museum at 8 Mott Street is open daily. Adults 50 cents (95 cents weekends); children, 35 cents.
Brooklyn Bridge. An engineering feat of 1883. Visitors may walk over East River to Brooklyn, enjoying spectacular views of Manhattan.
South Street Seaport Museum. A seven-block area on South Street recreating the bustling waterfront of Old New York, best seen by a visit to the seven galleries, two piers and five ships. Open 12 p.m.-6 p.m. daily.
The Statue of Liberty. Elevator to 300 foot high observation platform is 10 cents. Museum of Immigration in Statue’s base. Boats leave hourly, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. (9 a.m.-5 p.m. in summer). Round trip, adults, $1.50: children, 50 cents.
Financial District, at the southern tip of Manhattan. Narrow streets twist through forests of skyscrapers. Busy during the week; deserted on weekends. Among the attractions:
New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street. Tours, Monday-Friday every 30 minutes, from 10 a.m.-4:00 p.m. FREE.
American Stock Exchange, 78 Trinity Place. Tours, Monday-Friday, from 10 a.m.-3:30 p.m. FREE.
Trinity Church. English Gothic (1846). Famous burial place. Organ recitals, Tuesday and Thursday, 12:45 p.m. FREE.
World Trade Centre. Tallest double skyscraper in the world, focal point of the nation’s international trade and finance. Spectacular panorama of New York harbour, the five boroughs, and the shores of New Jersey from 107th floor observation deck. Daily, 9:30 a.m.-9:30 p.m., adults, $1.70; children, 85 cents.
WHAT TO SEE AND DO IN THE BOROUGHS
Although most of New York City’s attractions are concentrated in central Manhattan, the four other boroughs are all rewarding to visit. Heavily-populated Brooklyn (an easy subway ride) offers: Brooklyn Heights, a preserved 19th-century area, with superb views of the Manhattan skyline. Brooklyn Museum, Ancient Middle East art; American and European paintings and drawings; Oriental objects. Coney Island, 6 miles. (10 km.) of the Atlantic Ocean beach, with amusement rides and the New York Aquarium. Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Japanese garden, replica of Ryoanji Temple Stone Garden, children’s garden, conservatories. Brooklyn Academy of Music, presenting outstanding programs of dance, music, and drama in four separate theatres.
The Bronx (linked by bridges and subways to uptown Manhattan) offers: Bronx Zoo, the largest in America. The “World of Darkness” pavilion enables visitors to see rare nocturnal creatures. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx Park. Also the newly-renovated Yankee Stadium (“The House That Ruth Built”) home of the New York Yankees baseball team.
Queens, largest of the boroughs, is largely residential, although it contains John F. Kennedy International Airport; Shea Stadium, home of the New York Mets (baseball) and New York Jets (football); Aqueduct and Belmont Race Tracks, Hall of Science and Queens Museum.
Semi-rural Staten Island, reached by the Staten Island Ferry from Lower Manhattan, offers: Richmond-town Restoration, an 18th/19th-century village restoration. Jacques Marchais Centre of Tibetan Art is the largest private collection of Tibetan arts in the Western Hemisphere.
TOURS AND EXCURSIONS AROUND NEW YORK CITY
Walking Tours: The Parks Department, 830 Fifth Avenue, has a schedule of free guided tours through'historic neighbourhoods. A booklet of self-guided tours can be obtained from the Parks Department or from the Landmarks Preservation Commission, 305 Broadway. The Museum of the City of New York (Tel: 534-1672) offers special 2Vi-hour guided tours ($3) on alternate Sundays, from April through October.
The Circle Line: 3-hour narrated boat trip around Manhattan, leaving from Pier 83, West 43rd Street and the Hudson River, $5; under 12, $2.50; for schedule, phone 563-3200.
Bus Tours: One of the most rewarding—and inexpensive—ways to' explore New York on weekends and holidays is to take a Culture Bus, linking the city’s museums and principal attractions. The price is only $1.25, and you can get on and off as often as you like. Buses run every 20 minutes, and there are two separate itineraries—Loop 1, covering mid and upper Manhattan, and Loop 2, covering lower Manhattan and Brooklyn. Information and maps from New York City Transit Authority, Tel: 330-1234. Many other sightseeing companies offer dozens of varied bus tours, day and night, ranging from 2Vi hours to 8 hours. One tour, for example, takes you from the Battery to Grant’s Tomb, including Manhattan’s major sights en route, for $8.50. Tickets available at hotels, and information centres.
MUSEUMS
Museum of Contemporary Crafts, 29 West 53rd Street. Changing craft and design shows. Tuesday-Saturday, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m.-6 p.m. Adults, 75 cents; children. 25 cents.
Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue and 104th Street. Devoted to telling the story of New York City’s development from a Dutch trading post to America’s greatest metropolis. Tuesday-Saturday, 10 a.m.- 5 p.m.; Sundays and holidays, 1 p.m.-5 p.m. FREE.
Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street. Largest art museum in the Western Hemisphere. Outstanding collections cover all periods and civilisations. Open Wednesday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-4:45 p.m.; Tuesday, 10 a.m.-8:45 p.m.; Sundays and holidays, 11 a.m.-4:45 p.m. Pay what you wish.
The Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53 rd Street. Most important modern art collection in U.S. Outdoor sculpture garden; free film showings and gallery talks. Friday-Tuesday, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.; Thursday, 11 a.m.-9 p.m.; closed Wednesday. Sculpture garden open free summer weekends. Museum admission: adults, $2.00; children, 75 cents. Tuesday, pay what you wish.
New York City’s Chinatown is decorated with colourful banners.
Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Fifth Avenue at 88th Street. Controversial building by Frank Lloyd Wright displaying 19th-20th century paintings. Open 11 a.m.-5 p.m., Tuesday to 8 p.m., Sunday 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Adults, $1.50. Tuesday evening FREE.
Whitney Museum of American Art, Madison Avenue at East 75th Street. Futuristic granite structure designed by Marcel Breuer and Hamilton Smith. Exhibits of American Art. Wednesday-Saturday, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.; Tuesday 11 a.m.-10 p.m.; Sunday from noon to 6 p.m.; closed Monday. Adults, $1.50. Tuesday evenings FREE.
The Frick Collection, Fifth Avenue at 70th Street. A Florentine Renaissance palazzo still with original furnishings, considered one of the most beautiful museums in the world. Contains many fine paintings by European masters. June-August, Wednesday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m.-6 p.m.; September-May, Tuesday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m.-6 p.m. No children under 10. Admission, $1.00.
Jewish Museum, Fifth Avenue, and 92nd Street. Exhibitions trace the history of Judaism. Monday-Thurs-day, noon-5 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m.-6 p.m. Closed Friday and Saturday. Adults, $1.50; children, 50 cents.
New York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West and 77th Street. Exhibits of American history emphasizing New York. Folk art, drawings, glass, furniture. Tuesday-Sunday, 1 p.m.-5 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. FREE.
American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street. Man and nature through the ages. Mammals and birds of the world, skeletal reconstructions of prehistoric life. Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-4:45 p.m.; Sundays and holidays, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Pay what you wish.
Museum of the American Indian, Broadway at 155th Street. Largest Indian collection in the world. Tuesday-Sunday, 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Adults, $1.00, students, 50 cents.
The Cloisters, in Fort Tryon Park, upper Manhat-
tan. Outstanding collection of medieval art. Recorded concerts of medieval music Sunday afternoons. Tuesday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-4:45 p.m.; Sunday 1 p.m.-4:45 p.m. Pay what you wish.
The Pierpont Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street. Collections of precious illuminated manuscripts and autographs, early printed books, drawings, bookbindings. Special exhibits. Tuesday-Saturday, 10:30 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Closed August.
SPECIAL EVENTS
Washington Square Art Show. Inexpensive, original paintings displayed around park. Early June-early Sept.
Chinese New Year, Chinatown. Spectacle with costumes, parades, firecrackers, lion dances. Late January or early February.
Christmas Season. Fifth Avenue stores are decorated with splendid and remarkable animated window displays. Rockefeller Centre erects its traditional giant Christmas Tree. Thousands gather in Times Square to welcome the New Year.
New York Summer Festival. June-August, special events including concerts in the city’s parks, open-air theatre, sports activities and other outdoor entertainment. Features The Big Apple Jazz Festival in late June through early July.
THEATRES AND CONCERTS
You could stay a month in New York and see a different play every night, so numerous are the theatres on Broadway (the district roughly bordered by Broadway and 8th Avenue between the mid-west 40s and mid-west 50s) and “off Broadway” (smaller, less expensive establishments located all over town). The Convention and Visitors Bureau publishes a free list of events quarterly. Weekly entertainment magazines such as WHERE and PROMENADE are available free at your hotel. Newsstand magazines like CUE, NEW YORK MAGAZINE, and THE NEW YORKER are even more detailed and include brief reviews. New York’s three major newspapers, the Times, News, and Post provide daily listings and prices. Note: evening curtain times vary. Many shows play Wednesday and Saturday matinees.
Tickets, priced from about $4.00 to $15.00 (“off Broadway” slightly less) can be obtained direct from the box office, up to and including the day of performance. Smash hits are usually sold out months in advance, but it is often possible to get returns at the last minute if you are prepared to wait in line at least an hour before curtain time at the theatre.
Another source of same-day tickets is the “TKTS” booth at 47th Street and Broadway, where hundreds of unsold seats are offered at half-price. There are many ticket agencies (see Yellow Pages Directory) that can save you time, but be prepared to pay a commission.
Radio City Music Hall, Rockefeller Centre on 6th Avenue. World’s largest theatre (6,000 seats). Tickets range from $3.00 to $5.00, and include a first-run film plus gala-stage show featuring the Rockettes chorus line and Symphony Orchestra. Doors open mid-morning, continuous performances.