to other parts of Europe, you may leave cigarettes in excess of duty-free limits with the customs office to be picked up when you depart.
CLIMATE .. . The British Isles enjoy a temperate climate. High summer temperatures are around 70 degrees; in winter the average low is about 35 degrees. The rainy months are November, January and February. Spring and fall are particularly delightful seasons; the winter months are apt to have fogs and mists. Northern Scotland is apt to be cool, like Maine.
CLUBS .. . Britain was the birthplace of the Social Club and many men belong to private clubs in London and Edinburgh. Some of these were founded long ago and have a historic background; entry to them is invariably confined to members and their guests. Rotary and Lions are both represented here.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Though Britishers and Americans both speak a language called English there are many differences that can confuse you. Remember, cricket is as serious a matter as our baseball. In Scotland, asking what’s worn under kilts is not funny any more. Scotch jokes are out, too.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone, telegraph and cable service to all parts of the world. Local communication facilities are good. Airmail to the United States is Is and 3d or 18^ per Vz oz. Airletters only six pence.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the pound, valued at $2.80. There are 20 shillings in a pound; 12 pence in a shilling. You may bring in unlimited amounts of all currencies. No more than declared on entry is allowed out.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . You can usually take in with you, without duty, 400 cigarettes (600 if in transit), 100 cigars, or 1 lb. of tobacco; 1 bottle spirts and 1 of wine or 2 of either if in use; Vz pint perfume; small quantity of food.
Your American passport is all you’ll need for identification purposes. If you plan to hire a car to drive yourself, bring your driver’s license. A visitor’s license may be obtained for 70<f, from the Automobile Association or the Royal Automobile Club.
DRUG STORES . . . Drug stores, called chemists’ shops, can supply you with everything you need in the way of medicine and toilet goods. They don’t usually have soda fountains, although most department stores do.
ELECTRIC CURRENT .. . Voltage is generally 200-250 A.c., so you’ll need a transformer for an electric razor. Converter plugs of the round-prong type are also needed. Many hotels will supply electric razor adaptors.
FAUNA ... A great variety of animal and bird life abounds in the British Isles, mostly of the more domestic description. Notable among the birds is the nightingale. The forests contain deer and many species of small game and fowl.
FLORA ... Mild climate and lots of rain make British gardens