are given. It was here that Beyond the Fringe originated. Glasgow is also well equipped to cater to the theatergoer.
TIME . .. Five hours later than U.S. Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . The 10 to 15% rule applies at restaurants. At hotels divide 10 to 15% a'mong those giving personal service. In all cases bellboys, doormen and taximen are tipped extra (a shilling per bag for one or two pieces, 6d each if several small pieces). Tip only (7(f) for a fare of 2/6d (35<£), plus 3d for each l/6d of fare above 2/6d. Don’t overtip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . London is a spread-out city. It will be worth your while to study the train and subway systems to various parts of it. They are good and not expensive. In both England and Scotland there are plenty of buses. Taxis are available at all times and they are reasonable. There is excellent train and plane service all over Britain. Self-drive cars are also available at an average charge of $7.70 per day, allowing 80 miles. Excess mileage is charged at the rate of 2 cents per mile. Chauffeur-driven services are available in most towns for 21 cents per mile upwards, according to the type of car.
WATER . . . The water is safe to drink throughout the British Isles.
WHAT TO BUY . . . There’s no purchase tax for visitors on purchases worth £5 ($14) or more if they’re delivered to the ship or plane or shipped home direct.
London is the Paris of men’s clothing. British tailors are thà best in the world. Custom-made clothes are much cheaper than in American shops. A beautiful Scotch tweed suit costs about $100, compared with $250 in New York. Wonderfully soft camel’s hair coats can be bought for about the same price. Though some British tailors don’t do as good a job on women’s suits, you may wish to buy a length of tweed or woolen material to have made up at home. Handmade shoes cost around $25 a pair. They wear forever, too. The British make wonderful raincoats, including the famous Burberrys that are popular with both men and women. Sweaters, socks and scarfs in lovely soft wool and cashmere are also relatively inexpensive. Fine umbrellas, long a British speciality, are for sale at very reasonable prices. Lovely old English silver sells at a fraction of its price in America. Buy Belfast linen and lace-like porcelain from Northern Ireland. Fine china and glass are a good buy, but fragile to ship.
In Scotland, buy tweeds, of course, tartans, woolens and cotton goods, silver jewelry, the kilt if you insist. But mostly Harris and Shetland tweeds. Cashmeres, too, are wonderful. English pipes are good buys.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Even in the middle of summer the nights in England and Scotland can get as cold as October weather. Eighty degrees is considered an unusually warm day in London. Don’t crowd your luggage with light cotton or tropical worsted clothes, unless you are going to warmer climates. A simple wool suit and lightweight wool dresses will fill a woman’s daytime needs in the cities. Black cocktail dresses or dressy suits are best after five. The British wear