than Connecticut. Scotland, with 29,795 square miles, is about the size of South Carolina.
CAPITAL . . . Whereas London with a population of 8,171,902 is the capital of Great Britain, Edinburgh (population 468,378) is the recognized and administrative capital of Scotland.
GOVERNMENT. . . The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland form a constitutional monarchy with executive power held by the cabinet and headed by the Prime Minister, who must be supported by a majority of the House of Commons. Parliament consists of the House of Commons, whose members are elected directly by the people, and the House of Lords, whose members sit for life, either by hereditary right, by appointment by the Queen, or by virtue of office.
HOW TO GET THERE... By Pan Am’s Jet Clipper services of first class “President Special,” or “Rainbow” economy class fares, 6V2 hours to London from New York and Boston. Jet Clipper service also from Philadelphia and Baltimore/Washington; direct from Chicago (7% hours), or via Detroit. Jet'Clippers fly from U.S. West Coast via the polar route in 113A hours. Clippers serve Glasgow through Prestwick Airport. By ship, about five days.
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . London hotels are world famous for their friendly service and pleasant atmosphere. Here are the best hotels in central London; Claridge’s is still the swankiest hostelry in town. The rooms are large and gracious. The Savoy, of course, is known the world over, as is the Ritz. The fashionable Berkeley is equally fine. The Dorchester is very good. The Grosvenor House is very popular. Brown’s Hotel is traditionally fine. The Carlton Tower is brand new. The Westhury in Mayfair is also popular. Other good hotels include the Hyde Park, the May Fair, the Park Lane and the Mount Royal. The Strand Palace, the Regent Palace and the Cumberland are among the pleasant and less expensive hotels. London hotel rates vary considerably depending on location of room and time including breakfast. Hotel space is very scarce in summer, but there are many lesser-known, completely comfortable hotels a few minutes from central London and a few miles away, where you can save a couple of dollars in rate.
Among numerous hotels, private hotels and boarding houses in Scotland, Americans will probably prefer the Caledonian, George, Roxburghe and North British in Edinburgh; the Central, St. Enoch, North British and More’s in Glasgow. Rates are reasonable. Don’t expect lavishness, but you will be comfortable. Top rates about $10 single, $17 double, European Plan.
ARTS . . . l.ondon offers a wealth of museum and gallery-visiting experiences. There is the British Museum with its vast collection of the art of all ages, including some famous must-be-seens: Elgin Marbles from Greece, manuscripts of the Magna Carta, some of Shakespeare’s First Folio, and important anthropological exhibits. The National Gallery in Trafalgar Square is a must for all picture lovers.