part of the Covent Garden repertoire. The performances of the Royal Philharmonic are among the highlights of the symphony season. There are also many chamber-music groups and visiting artists from the Continent. There are concerts at the Royal Festival Hall and Royal Albert Hall.
In Scotland, the Edinburgh Festival of Music and Drama, held in late August and early September, is known the world over. World-famous conductors, orchestras, singers and opera companies appear. The Scottish National Orchestra has q concert season in Edinburgh and Glasgow, November to April. Promenade concerts are in late June and early July in Glasgow and Edinburgh. Edinburgh Castle is the headquarters for the Army School of Bagpipe playing, so it is possible to hear that hauntingly sad music in the city. The Highlands, of course, are the best setting to hear this unforgettable music.
NIGHT CLUBS.. . The British phenomenon, the pub, can mean a wide variety of establishments from London’s ultra-swank West End bars, whose snack bars serve some of the best food in town, to the smoky little neighborhood pubs, with their inevitable game of darts, that are the working-class Englishman’s club.
The gay night life of London centers in such places as Churchills Club in Bond Street. The younger set likes to relax here. Admission and membership fee is $6 per person. Dinner and wine costs approximately $10 per person and whisky is approximately $12 a bottle. The “400 Club’’ is one of the plushest night spots in town. Also very gala and less expensive is the Embassy. There are floor shows and dancing at all these places. Other clubs include the River Club on the Embankment, the Empress Club in Berkeley Street, Siegi’s in Charles Street, Berkeley Square, Les Ambassadeurs and Milroy. Membership, where necessary, can be arranged by a telephone call to the manager. Membership fees are nominal. The following London restaurants also have dance orchestras and entertainment: quite moderate in price are the Astor, Pigalle Restaurant and Edmundo Ros’ Club. More expensive but very good is Quaglino’s in Bury Street. London clubs change name quite frequently, so check at your hotel before you set out for an evening.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . Good supplies of cameras and equipment, black-and-white still and movie film and color film are now available. Prices are higher than in the United States. Film developing services are good with a 48-hour service at most shops.
RELIGION . . . The official religion in Scotland is Protestant Presbyterian. In England it is Protestant Episcopal; its members are known as Anglicans. There are many other churches, in Britain, including Methodist, Catholic and Lutheran, and Jewish synagogues.
RESTAURANTS. . . Some of the best eating in London can be done in the dining rooms of the Dorchester, Berkeley, Grosvenor House, the Savoy and other fine hotels. There is usually music for dancing and the service is distinguished. Leoni’s Quo Vadis, Marietta’s, Mirabelle, L’Epicure, Coq d’Or, Meurice, Quaglino’s, Hatchett’s, Hun-garia and Cunningham’s Oyster Bar are among London’s many good