and countryside look like something out of a seed catalogue. The ardent English gardeners are well rewarded by beautiful colors and lush greenery. The various botanical gardens in England offer much to those interested in plants of other countries.
In Edinburgh the Princes Street Gardens are famous for their floral clock. Glasgow also has a most beautiful botanical garden, situated in the West End, in Great Western Road.
FOOD.. . Despite the generally unspectacular reputation of British cooking, there are some world-famous restaurants in Britain that have superb food. Roast beef and Yorkshire pudding are traditional British dishes. Tea is a universal meal. It can mean anything from bread and butter to a spread of cooked dishes, followed by cakes. Don’t miss having hot scones. Haggis, a traditional Scottish dish, is a pudding of liver, onion, spices and oatmeal boiled in the lining of a sheep’s stomach. Then too, there is Scotch broth. Simpler dishes are scones, shortbreads, and the inevitable porridge.
GAMBLING. . . Most of the gambling is betting on horses or dogs. There is some form of racing almost every day and every night except Sundays. Bets are handled by legalized bookmakers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING.. . Most hotels have good cleaning and laundry services available.
LIQUOR . . . Beer and whisky are the Britishers’ favorite drinks. Gin is popular, too, as gin and tonic, gin and bitters, gin and It (short for Italian vermouth) or gin and lime. If you order whisky you’ll get Scotch. You can also get Irish whisky. Rye can be obtained, but bourbon is less readily available. Scotch whisky in Scotland is one of the most expensive. Some of the lesser-known pot still whiskies may be a mixture of Scotch and Irish whisky. There are an unlimited number of malt beverages to be had. The British assortment includes lager, bitter beer, mild ale, old ale and stout, to name but a few. They are served at room temperature except for lager, which is closest to American beer. You can buy duty-free liquor at Prestwick, Renfrew and London airports.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... Your hotel will direct you to the nearest private physician. If you become ill or meet with an accident in Britain, you may obtain medical care, free of charge if necessary, under the National Health Scheme.
The medical facilities in Scotland are among the best in the world. The University of Edinburgh Medical College has few equals. Hospitals are numerous and their facilities are available to all visitors.
MOTION PICTURES.. . Known here as “the pictures” or the cinema, motion picture theaters usually open at noon. There are many which show the best of American films and other foreign films as well as all kinds of British movies.
MUSIC... In England, opera at Covent Garden and Sadler’s Wells Theater. The English were the first to try operas sung in English on a large scale. The reception has been most enthusiastic. Modern opera, especially that of Benjamin Britten, is an integral