other very fine courses in Scotland within 40 miles of Edinburgh include: North Berwick, Gullane, Mortonhall in Midlothian, and Muir-field, one of the oldest and most illustrious courses. An open letter from your club at home will get you temporary membership.
You’ll find tennis all over Great Britain. The grass courts are all good. A week-end visit is almost sure to include some tennis; the sport is nationally popular. Britain is also fine for fishing. Streams such as the lichen, Frome and Axe have made English trout fishing famous. The dry-fly fishing here ranks with the best in the world. The moor country in western England offers the wet-fly fisherman excellent casting for salmon and trout. Fishing is also marvelous all over Scotland. The salmon fishing is world famous, but most of the salmon rivers are privately owned. It is possible to rent a boat for a month or a season. Salmon fishing is excellent in the Highlands and on the east coast. For brown-trout fishing there are innumerable hotels which own fishing streams for their guests. There are boats and guides available. In southern Scotland there are many streams in which you may fish by purchasing a ticket.
There’s good hunting in Britain for deer, hare and many kinds of game, including pheasant, partridge, wild geese and duck. Game licenses cost $8.50 a season for as many guns as you wish and a hunting permit, or $5.60 and $2.80 for shorter periods. Most of the shooting in Scotland is done on private preserves. However, it is possible for the visitor to hire a moor for his very own, or, more modestly, to make arrangements for shooting through C. W. Ingram, 90 Princes Street; or Walker, Fraser and Steel, 58 Castle Street, Edinburgh. Pheasant, October-February; wild duck, August-February; grouse, August-December; partridge, September-February.
Britain is wonderful for the hiker and bicycling enthusiast. There is a wide variety of landscape and terrain that can be covered in a short time. The Youth Hostel movement is very popular in the British Isles. There are more than 500 hostels offering low-cost accommodations for hikers and cyclists.
THEATERS... First of all, try to see the famous Old Vic Company at the reconditioned Old Vic on the South Bank, London. It has a great tradition of fine acting and offers some of the best theatrical entertainment found anywhere. You’ll want to check what’s playing in the famous West End theaters. London offers a great variety of plays and musical comedies throughout the year. Besides new plays, there are always revivals of Shakespeare and the classics. You buy your program, but tickets are cheap, ranging from 3 5<J to $3.50 for the best seats in the house. It is best to decide when you first arrive what you are going to see and get seats in advance. You’ll want to spend a few evenings at the music halls, too. The Palladium is the home of vaudeville. See also paragraph on music. Theater time is 7:30 or 8 p.m.
In Edinburgh there are two theaters for excellent touring companies and occasional premières, but it is at the time of the International Music and Drama Festival that the most interesting plays