restaurants, and Simpson’s in the Strand is world famous. Foreign food is found in the Soho section of town, London’s Greenwich Village. Here excellent French, Italian, Chinese, Greek, Hungarian and Jewish cookery can be found. Try Au Jardín des Gourmets, and the White Tower. “Hotels and Restaurants in London” and “Good Food Guide,” available locally, are good source booklets.
In Edinburgh, Café Royal, Albyn Rooms, I’Apertif, the Epicure, and leading hotels are all good. In Glasgow try the Whitehall, the 101 Club, the Mai Maison, La Fouchette, the Grosvenor, the Royal, Rogano, Copacabana, Guy’s and the Gay Gordon, to name only a few.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Harrods, Dickins and Jones, Robinson and Cleaver’s, Fortnum and Mason’s, Selfridges and Simpson’s are among London’s top department stores. Marvelous tailors along Savile Row. Wonderful shops along Regent and Bond Streets. British designers include Digby Morton, Hartnell, Worth, and Charles Creed. Liberty’s for silk prints. Shops are closed Saturday afternoons.
In Edinburgh Anderson’s, George Street, for tweeds, tartans and Highland outfits. Hamilton and Inches from Scottish silver craft. Tensfeldt, Princes Street, for souvenirs. George Cockburn, Shandwick Place, for antique jewelry and silver. McCalls, Lothian Road, for Celtic silverware and tartan souvenirs. City Glass Co., for old glass. Romanes and Paterson for tweeds, tartans, cashmeres and ladies’ knitwear. Jenners is the largest department store.
SPECTATOR SPORTS .. . Horse racing goes on all year in England. The flat racing season lasts from March to December when the steeplechasing and hurdle racing begin. The first week in June is Derby Week. People come from miles around to see this great world-famous race, and gypsies camp on Epsom Downs, giving the whole event a carnival air. It is one of the gayest and most interesting of events.
A visit to Lord’s Cricket Ground in London is interesting. Rugby is mainly a university sport, not so popular as soccer. The biggest soccer event in England is the Cup Final, played at Wembley in April or early May. Other major sports events in England are the world-championship tennis matches at Wimbledon in London during June and July, the British Amateur and British Open Golf tournaments in May and July, respectively, and the Oxford-Cambridge boat race on the Thames in March or early April.
In Scotland, at the Highland games, which bring the clans together and are well worth seeing, you see hurling contests, wrestling, Scottish dances. Other spectator sports include golf tournaments, national and international; squash matches, association football, rugby, fencing, yachting regattas, bowling matches, horse racing.
SPORTS . . . There is a wide variety of interests for the sportsman in Great Britain. Here are some of the world’s best golf courses. Near London is the famous Sunningdale course. Westward Ho! in Devon, Hoylake near Liverpool and the courses at Sandwich in Kent, to mention a few, are all excellent. In Scotland are St. Andrew’s Old Course, Troon, Turnberry, Gleneagles, near Stirling, and the Old Prestwick course where you can reserve clubs in advance for $3. Some