It has one of the world's most brilliant collections of French, Italian, Spanish, Flemish and English painting. The Tate Gallery, Millbank, offers an excellent collection of modern art from Turner on. The National Portrait Gallery in St. Martin’s Place has portraits of Britain’s great by artists of their times. The Victoria and Albert Museum in Kensington should also be seen.
Besides the large galleries and museums, London also has a number of charming, intimate museums that were the houses of great men of letters and public life. Visiting Carlyle House in Chelsea, Keats’s House in Keats Grove, or Dickens’ home in Doughty Street is like going back in time. Galleries and museums in London are open usually from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily and from 2 to 5 p.m. on Sundays. Admission is free in most.
Everyone interested in Scottish history will be charmed by Edinburgh. Visit the National Museum of Antiquities on Queen Street, the Scottish Naval and Military Museum at legend-laden Edinburgh Castle, the old barracks which were turned into a National Repository in 1933. Here you will find flags, relics, historic uniforms and other objects devoted to each Scottish Regiment. Visit the Scottish National Gallery and the Royal Scottish Academy, both of which contains fine examples of past and contemporary Scottish art. These galleries are on the “Mound.” The Royal Scottish Museum is on Chambers Street.
In Glasgow, see Glasgow University and Art Galleries in Kelvin-grove Park. This building, a work of art in itself, houses many treasures including Dali’s famous painting of Christ on the Cross.
BALLET. . . London’s Royal Ballet Company has gained sensational success and reputation both at home and abroad. It may be seen at the Covent Garden Opera House. Many foreign ballet and dance groups may also be seen in the British Isles.
BANKS . . . Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, Chase Manhattan Bank, Banker’s Trust and First National City Bank, all of New York, Bank of America; Royal Bank of Canada. English banks include Westminster Bank, Lloyd’s Bank, Midland Bank, Barclay’s Bank, and National Provincial Bank. American Express, 6 Haymarket; Thos. Cook & Son, Berkeley Street. In Edinburgh and Glasgow: Clydesdale and North of Scotland Bank Ltd., National Commercial Bank of Scotland, and Royal Bank of Scotland. See currency.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS... British national holidays include the Bank Holidays on Good Friday, Easter Monday, Whit Monday and the first Monday in August; Christmas Day; Boxing Day on the 26th of December and New Year’s Day. The Queen’s official birthday, celebrated in midsummer, is an occasion for pageantry but is not a public holiday.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO. . . English cigarettes, cigars and tobacco are comparatively expensive. Cigarettes cost about 55 cents for 20, cigars from 50 cents to $2.50 each, and pipe tobacco costs $1.25 for 2 ounces. American cigarettes are also expensive. If you are going