can do the museums and art galleries, you can wander around the various neighborhoods which make up the largest city in the world, you can go down to the “City,” you can poke around Soho and Chelsea. But here are a few musts on anyone’s list. Westminster Abbey comes first. This old English building is England itself. Here is where the sovereigns of Great Britain have been crowned for centuries. Here is where royalty is wed, and many of the great of England are buried in the Abbey. The history of the English people can be read in these memorials.
You can’t miss Big Ben at Westminster, or Eros on his Piccadilly fountain. The British Museum is a must even if you aren’t a museum-goer. The Houses of Parliament are near the Abbey. Built in 1840, they are pseudo-Gothic with Victorian overtones. History is made here and you may be in on its making by obtaining passes to the debates in the House of Commons (by application to the Admission order office). There are guided tours available on Saturdays only, 10 a.m.-4:30 p.m., for which it is not necessary to make advance booking arrangements.
Go to the Tower of London, scene of some of the darkest chapters in English history. It is now a museum and holds the Crown Jewels and other treasures. Within its walls is the beautiful little chapel of St. John, one of the perfect examples of Norman architecture. Take a day to see this vast building which has stood since the time of William the Conqueror. And don’t miss St. Paul’s Cathedral, which was built by Christopher Wren. The graceful Renaissance dome has been a landmark for more than two centuries.
Take a bus to the “City,” the financial heart of England. Here you will find “The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street” (Bank of England), Lloyd’s, the Temple, Lincoln’s Inn and Gray’s Inn. This is where you’ll find the ancient Cheshire Cheese pub in Fleet Street.
Go to Marble Arch on Sundays and hear soapbox orators. Watch the riders along Rotten Row, go to the world-famous London Zoo in Regent’s Park. Take a look at Mme. Tussaud’s Waxworks.
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This reprint covers, in abridged form, only one of 96 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $2 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
Clipper and New Horizons, Trade-Marks, Pdn American World Airways, Inc. 25M. 1.63
»•»NT«*
Us. A.
/ / C0 ,