a. single ticket to everywhere
International air transport is most useful to the traveller and shipper when he can book himself or his goods, simply and easily, from anywhere he happens to be to any of the 3,500 cities on the air map—by the fastest, cheapest and most direct routing possible.
By voluntary international agreement, the airlines have been able to knit their individual routes into a single, worldwide system—without the slightest change in the nationality, character or ownership of any individual company.
These agreements, most of which must be approved by governments to become effective, cover virtually every phase of an air traffic transaction, from the birth of the idea to the completion of the trip:
They coordinate timetables, to help passengers make the best connections possible.
They make certain that advertising will be accurate and fair.
They establish the qualifications of the agents who sell passenger and cargo space to the airlines on behalf of the scheduled airlines.
They provide a universal reservations code by which bookings can be made and confirmed anywhere in the world.
They assure that all fares, rates, conditions of carriage and other factors which determine how the traveller must pay and what kind of treatment he can expect, will be known in advance—and that they will be the same for him ms for everyone else.
And they guarantee that the single ticket or air waybill issued by one airline will be honored by more than a hundred others, no matter how long or complicated the voyage may be.
In a world still beset by foreign exchange controls and currency fluctuations, international air transport must be able to sell space in the traveller’s own currency— and to bring the proceeds home to pay its own bills in its own money.
An International Clearing House, maintained with the cooperation of governments, allows the airlines to transact international business in a bewildering variety of currencies without risking substantial losses through fluctuation, premiums and delays.