Southern Cross
23 days from $1108 plus air fare
New Zealand • Australia
Auckland
Rotorua
Queenstown
Christchurch
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Alice Springs
Cairns
Sydney
2 Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights
1	Night
2	Nights
3	Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights
2ND AND 3RD DAYS. AUCKLAND.
t
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	American breakfast daily.
•	Lunch at Waitomo.
•	Lunch at a sheep station in Canberra.
•	Lunch at Barossa Valley in Adelaide.
•	Lunch at Green Island.
•	Farewell dinner at Obediah West’s, Sydney.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
•	Maori dance concert in Rotorua.
•	Full day tour of Canberra.
•	Full day tour of the Barossa Valley.
•	Full day excursion to Green Island.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
I
/
1ST DAY. SATURDAY: USA/AUCKLAND.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Auckland.
You cross the International Date Line, lose a day, arriving in Auckland on Monday morning. Remainder of the day at leisure.
Auckland, in the North Island, is New Zealand’s largest city situated on a narrow isthmus between the Pacific Ocean and Tasman Sea. The drive from the airport to your hotel takes you through parks, past beautifully kept houses with neat gardens and rolling tracts of pasture where sheep and horses graze. Quite unlike any other airport to city drive. Monday afternoon, stroll through the town and sniff the sea breezes!
4TH DAY. TUESDAY: AUCKLAND.
Tuesday morning city sightseeing. Afternoon free.
Tuesday morning your tour takes you across the Auckland Harbor Bridge to the seaside suburbs; climb to the summit of Mount Eden, an extinct volcano, have a wonderful view of the city! This evening is free for you to discover one of Auckland’s many excellent restaurants.
5TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: AUCKLAND/WAITOMO/ ROTORUA.
Morning departure for Rotorua, stopping to visit the Waitomo Glowworm Grotto en route. After lunch continue to your hotel.
Evening free.
Not far from Rotorua are the Waitomo Caves and their glowworm grottos. As you descend the steps, the damp underground breeze cools your face. At the bottom is a great pool, eerily silent. Here you board a rowboat and glide to the dark corners where thousands of shimmering blue-and-gold glowworm webs wrap around limestone outcroppings.
7TH AND 8TH DAYS. ROTORUA/QUEENSTOWN.
Friday morning flight to Queenstown. Assistance on arrival. Afternoon city sightseeing. Saturday is a free day.
On your arrival in Queenstown, you will be transferred to your hotel and then taken on a tour of this beautiful city surrounded by rugged mountains which tower above Lake Wakatipu. Queenstown is a popular resort for New Zealanders
Morning sightseeing. Evening Maori dance concert.
Today visit Whakarewarewa Thermal Reserve, heart of Rotorua’s thermal wonderland where you’ll see geysers, craters and pools of boiling mud. Also visit the Maori Arts and Crafts Centre, Ohinemutu, the Rainbow Trout Springs where you can feed tame trout by hand. This evening attend a Maori dance concert and watch a Maori group give a performance of traditional songs and dances.
6TH DAY. THURSDAY: ROTORUA.
16
