Sunday morning’s tour drives you out as far as the border of the People’s Republic of China. En route you will pass through the New Territories settlement areas, visit an ancient walled village and see the farmlands of the ancient Hakkas. Lunch will be at the Carlton Hotel. Afternoon and evening are free.
9TH AND 10TH DAYS.
HONG KONG/MANILA.
Monday, transfer to the airport for your flight to Manila. Fiesta Filipina dinner and show this evening.
Tuesday morning city sightseeing.
Monday evening a Fiesta Filipina dinner with cultural show has been arranged for you. A good beginning to your stay here. Tuesday morning you’ll visit Malacanang Palace, Santo Tomas, Intramuros, the Spanish walled city and other interesting sights.
You’ll be intrigued by this cosmopolitan city on the Island of Luzon, one of 7,000 islands in the Philippines. Everywhere you go, you’ll see and hear “Mabuhay,” which means welcome — and they mean it. The remainder of your stay is at leisure.
11TH AND 12TH DAYS. MANILA/DAYAO.
Wednesday afternoon flight to Davao. Transfer to your hotel. Thursday morning sightseeing; afternoon and evening free. Dinner at your hotel.
Afternoon transfer to the airport for your flight south to Davao on the Island of Mindanao. This evening dinner will be served at your hotel. Thursday morning your tour takes you to the market, the business centre, Magsaysay Memorial, the Bogo Trigo Farm and other interesting places. The balance of the day is at leisure. Dinner at your hotel.
13TH AND 14TH DAYS. DAVAO/SINGAPORE.
Friday morning departure to Manila. After lunch fly to Singapore.
Saturday morning sightseeing. Afternoon and evening free.
On your arrival in Manila, you will be transferred to the Madrid Restaurant for lunch. Back to the airport in time for your afternoon flight to Singapore. You will be met and transferred to your hotel.
Singapore is the cleanest, brightest, busiest city in Southeast Asia. You can buy anything from orchids to Oriental antiques. Dine on that New York-cut steak, sample Chinese food, satay or tempura. In Singapore, you can do anything.
Saturday morning’s tour takes you to all the highlights of this city: The Padang, Singapore’s waterfront, City Hall and
Supreme Court and, for contrast, Haw Par Villa, known as the Tiger Balm Gardens. The afternoon and evening are free.
15TH AND 16TH DAYS. SINGAPORE/KUALA LUMPUR. Sunday afternoon departure for Kuala Lumpur. Monday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
Sunday afternoon fly to Kuala Lumpur, capital of Malaysia. You will have great fun exploring your hotel, one of the newest in Kuala Lumpur. It has plenty of restaurants to choose from, tiny shops to browse in, and a luxurious cocktail lounge in the lobby where you can enjoy a cool drink.
On Monday morning you set off on a tour of the beautiful tropical countryside. You’ll see different methods of mining tin, rubber tapping and its processes and visit a batik factory. The afternoon is free. Don’t forget to go to the Tin-Mine, the fantastic disco situated in your hotel.
17TH THROUGH 19TH DAYS. KUALA LUMPUR/BANGKOK. Tuesday morning flight to Bangkok. Thai dinner and dances in the evening. Wednesday morning sightseeing. Thursday morning tour of the klongs. Remainder of time at leisure.
On arrival transfer to your hotel. You’ll have time this afternoon to shop for Thai silk, sapphires or antiques. This evening watch a performance of Thai dancing while enjoying dinner. Wednesday morning’s tour takes you to the Royal Palace area; visit Wat Phra Keo, the home of the Emerald Buddha.
Bright and early on Thursday, a visit to the klongs and the floating market has been arranged for you.
20TH DAY. FRIDAY: BANGKOK/HONG KONG.
Morning departure for Hong Kong. Afternoon and evening free.
Back to Hong Kong this morning for one last look. Perhaps to have a final fitting at that marvelous Hong Kong tailor, or take another ride to the top of the Peak, where you can have lunch or dinner. Tomorrow you are homeward bound, so make sure you have all those last minute gifts.
2IST DAY. SATURDAY:
HONG KONG/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line, arriving in the USA Saturday morning.
AIR FARES: See page 36.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower.	
See descriptions beginning on page 2. During certain periods	
it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.	
City	Hotels
Tokyo	Hilton
Kyoto	New Miyako
Hong Kong	Hilton
Manila	InterContinental
Davao	Davao Insular
Singapore	Hilton
Kuala Lumpur	Hilton
Bangkok	Montien
DEPARTURE DATES:	
From San Francisco and Houston on dates marked t.	
From Los Angeles, Miami and New York on all	
other dates.	
Depart	Return
USA	Hong Kong
Sunday	Saturday
1979	
Apr 15			May 5
fApr 29			May 19
May 13			Jun 2
t May 27			Jun 16
Jun 17		....Jul 7
t Jul 8		....Jul 28
Aug 12			Sep 1
fSep 16		.... Oct 6
Oct 28		.... Nov 17
fNov 11			Dec 1
Dec 16			Jan 5
1980	
fJan 13		....Feb 2
Feb 3		....Feb 23
tMar 2		....Mar 22
LAND PRICES: Per person	IT9PA142MU
Prices shown include ail costs which can be prepaid. In addi tion, each person must pay various airport taxes of approximately $16.00.
Twin	Single	Triple
$992	$1262	$944
J
PANAMAC CODES:
SF0.................ZZ943N	DDDEEE
LAX.................ZZ943N	EEEFFF
NYC.................ZZ943N	FFFGGG
H0U use SF0 • MIA use LAX
Codes reflect gateway used. Book PA to/from gateway.
Teletype Offices: Request from LAXSLPA.
Flong
Bangkok
Kuala Lumper _
Singapore
25