11TH AND 12TH DAYS. SINGAPORE/BANGKOK.
Monday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure with departure for Bangkok on Tuesday.
Monday morning your tour will take you to the highlights of this city: The bustling waterfront, City Hall, the Supreme Court, Raffles Hotel and the Tiger Balm Gardens. This evening and Tuesday morning are free. Why not go to the famous Raffles Hotel and try the genuine Singapore Sling! Wander down Change Alley where you can bargain for anything—from a two-foot monkey wrench to a gold bracelet!
Tuesday afternoon, you leave for Bangkok. You will be met and transferred to your hotel.
13TH THROUGH 15TH DAYS. BANGKOK/PATTAYA/BANGKOK. Wednesday morning sightseeing. Afternoon departure for Pattaya by motorcoach. Thursday is free; dinner at Pattaya in your hotel. Friday morning, return to Bangkok. Thai dinner and dances in the evening.
Wednesday morning, your tour takes you to three of Bangkok’s most famous temples—Wat Trimitr, with its solid gold Buddha; Wat Benchamabopit, known as the Marble Temple; and Wat Po, with its magnificent reclining Buddha. This afternoon, you leave by motorcoach for Pattaya, a beautiful beach resort. Your hotel has its own private beach, magnificent gardens and only a few minutes by boat from deserted islands where the water is so clear you can see the fish that tickle your toes. You can drive into the village or spend this time soaking up the sun and taking a well-earned “breather.” While you are in Pattaya, dinner will be at your hotel.
Friday, you return to Bangkok. You’ll have time this afternoon to shop for Thai silk, star sapphires or antiques. This evening, watch a performance of Thai dancing while enjoying dinner.
16TH DAY. SATURDAY: BANGKOK/HONG KONG.
Morning departure for Hong Kong. Afternoon and evening free.
17TH THROUGH 19TH DAYS. HONG KONG.
Sunday morning sightseeing of Kowloon and New Territories, followed by lunch. Monday free. Tuesday morning sightseeing of Hong Kong Island. Remainder of time at leisure.
Sunday morning’s tour drives you out as far as the border of the People’s
Republic of China. En route you will pass through the New Territories settlement areas, visit an ancient walled village and see the farmlands of the ancient Hakkas. Lunch will be at the Carlton Hotel.
On Monday, you’ll have plenty of time on your own. Take a day trip to nearby Macau or take the Star Ferry across the harbor to Kowloon, where the reflections from the jewelry shop windows hit the streets with a ricochet of light—browse through one of the many furniture shops and arrange to have that beautiful little table sent home by sea—have afternoon tea at the Peninsula Hotel and watch the world go by.
Tuesday, you’ll have a tour of Hong Kong Island. You’ll see the commercial centre, the banking area, Susie Wong’s Wanchai district, Happy Valley, go up to Victoria Peak and gaze out over all Hong Kong! The afternoon and evening are free.
20TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
HONG KONG/M ANIL A.
Early morning departure for Manila. Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Afternoon and evening free.
You’ll be intrigued by this cosmopolitan city on the Island of Luzon, one of 7,000 islands in the Philippines. Everywhere you go, you’ll see and hear “Mabuhay,” which means welcome—and they mean it!
Relax this afternoon in the garden of your hotel, one of the prettiest in the Philippines—or start looking for that one great restaurant.
21ST AND 22ND DAYS.
MANILA.
Thursday morning sightseeing. Friday evening Fiesta Filipina dinner and show.
Thursday morning, you’ll visit Malacanang Palace, Santo Tomas, Intramuros, the Spanish walled city and other interesting sights. This afternoon you are free to browse in the shops, take a tour to Lake Tagatay or perhaps Corregidor.
Friday is free. Why not arrange an optional tour to Pagsanjan Falls where you will have a thrilling boat ride or visit the museums. This evening, join your friends for a Fiesta Filipina dinner with a cultural show. A good way to end your stay here! Tomorrow you are homeward bound.
23RD DAY. SATURDAY: MANILA/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line, arriving in the USA Saturday morning.
AIR FARES: See page 36.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower. See descriptions beginning on page 2. During certain periods it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.	
City	Hotels
Auckland	TraveLodge
Rotorua	White Heron Caravel
Sydney	Hyatt Kingsgate
Melbourne	Hilton
Singapore	Hilton
Bangkok	Montien
Pattaya	Royal Cliff
Hong Kong	Hilton
Manila	Inter-Continental
DEPARTURE DATES: From Los Angeles on all dates shown.	
Depart	Return
USA	Manila
Friday	Saturday
	1979
Apr 27..		May 19
May 11..	
Jun 15..		Jul 7
Jul 20..	
Aug 17..		Sep 8
Sep 21..		Oct 13
Oct 5..			Oct 27
Nov 9..		Dec 1
Dec 7..		Dec 29
	1980
Jan 4..		Jan 26
Feb 8..		Mar 1
Mar 7..		Mar 29
LAND PRICES: Per person	IT9PA142MR
Prices shown include all costs which can be prepaid. In addition, each person must pay various airport taxes of approximately $15.00.
Twin	Single	Triple
$938	$1233	$880
PANAMAC CODES:
LAX.................ZZ943N LLLMMM
Codes reflect gateway used.
Teletype Offices: Request from LAXSLPA.
31