12TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
SYDNEY/CANBERRA/
MELBOURNE.
Fly to Canberra. Full day tour of the city plus a visit to a sheep station. Lunch included, then on to Melbourne.
From Sydney you fly to Canberra and begin an exciting full day tour of the national capital combined with a visit to a sheep station. You’ll visit the Australian War Memorial, the Commonwealth Gardens and the National Library. At the sheep station you will enjoy a hearty Australian lunch, watch sheep dogs rounding the sheep, and see the art of sheep shearing. Return to the airport and fly to Melbourne.
13TH AND 14TH DAYS. MELBOURNE.
Thursday, a visit to Healesville Sanctuary. Friday morning city sightseeing. Remainder of the time at leisure.
On Thursday, you’ll visit Healesville Sanctuary, one of the most famous in Australia. Here you can see a remarkable collection of native animals and birds— kangaroos, wallabies, koalas, wombats, platypuses, emus, parrots and a representative range of other creatures of the Australian bush. The afternoon is free.
On Friday morning you will have a tour of the city of Melbourne.
15TH AND 16TH DAYS. MELBOURNE/ADELAIDE. Saturday fly to Adelaide. Sunday, full day excursion to Barossa Valley, lunch included.
On arrival in Adelaide, you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel. The remainder of Saturday is free. On Sunday you have a full day excursion to Barossa Valley wine district. These lovely vineyards produce some of Australia’s finest wines. Sample the best vintages before returning to your hotel.
17TH DAY. MONDAY: ADELAIDE/ALICE SPRINGS. Morning flight to Alice Springs. Afternoon sightseeing.
Alice Springs still smacks of pioneer days. Cattlemen wander around in jeans and tooled leather boots, cowgirls yodel along to guitars. Although it is a frontier town the homes are modern, the streets wide and tree-lined. It is the base for the Royal Flying Doctor service, a unique medical service that gives advice by two-way radio to settlers living in remote areas of the territory.
18TH DAY. TUESDAY:
ALICE SPRINGS.
Full free day.
Today you are free to wander around on your own or perhaps take a full day excursion to Ayers Rock.
19TH AND 20TH DAYS.
ALICE SPRINGS/CAIRNS.
On Wednesday fly to Cairns. Thursday a full day excursion to Green Island in the Great Barrier Reef including lunch.
On arrival at Cairns you will be transferred to your hotel. In the evening enjoy a delicious dinner; the seafood is divine. On Thursday, board your launch to Green Island, part of the Great Barrier Reef.
Visit the Underwater Laboratory and Marineland to see the vivid plants and fish that live along the reef. After lunch, coast along the reef in a glass-bottomed boat before returning to Cairns. Another superb dinner this evening.
21ST DAY. FRIDAY: CAIRNS/SYDNEY.
Back to Sydney today. Assistance and transfer to your hotel on arrival. Evening free.
22ND DAY. SATURDAY:
SYDNEY.
Morning city sightseeing. Afternoon free. Farewell dinner at Obediah West’s.
This morning you’ll drive through the city, visiting the historic Rocks area and the beautiful beaches. You are free until this evening when you have a wonderful farewell dinner at Obediah West’s, located in your hotel.
23RD DAY. SUNDAY: SYDNEY/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your Pan Am Jet Clipper flight home. You recross the International Date Line arriving in the USA early Sunday morning.
18