Hotels
Pan Am’s World Tours offer a wide range of hotel categories:
Superior: Superior first class or deluxe hotels. Hotels chosen for their excellent accommodations, amenities and ambience.
Moderate: Medium first class hotels. Hotels selected for their range of amenities, pleasant accommodations, location and standard of service.
Quality: Superior tourist or first class hotels. Hotels offering simple but comfortable accommodations and good value.
Since hotel accommodations form a major part of the land price, your decision may be affected by the type of hotel, its location and features within each of the price ranges. To simplify your decision, we have listed the hotels used by city (in alphabetical order). The descriptions of the hotels have been kept simple and objective; the purpose is to indicate location, main features, and other items which would be of interest to you.
Categories are those rated by our own Quality Control rating system. Thus they may differ somewhat from designations in many hotel guides which frequently vary among themselves.
ADELAIDE
montien
•^888(6::
AGRA
ALICE SPRINGS
South Terrace TraveLodge: Moderate Ideal downtown setting, 30 minutes from the airport. Dining room, cocktail lounge, swimming pool. Completely air-conditioned and centrally heated.
Mughal: Superior New deluxe hotel situated within sight of the Taj Mahal. All rooms have air-conditioning. 24-hour room service. 4 restaurants, health club, swimming pool set in landscaped gardens.
Oasis Motel: Moderate Modern first class motel near the golf course. 100 rooms with bar, refrigerator, radio and air-conditioning. Restaurant and cocktail bar, swimming pool, bowling green and golf course.
Bali Beach lnter*Continental
AUCKLAND
Auckland TraveLodge: Moderate Modern first class hotel overlooking the harbor and shipping terminals, one block from city centre. 200 air-conditioned rooms with TV, radio. Restaurant bar and coffee shop. Swimming pool.
BALI
Bali Beach InterContinental: Superior Deluxe hotel situated on beautiful Sanur Beach. All rooms have air-conditioning. Supper club, Indonesian and Chinese restaurants, coffee shop. Cocktail lounges. 2 swimming pools and tennis courts.
2