Romantic Orient ^
20 days from $599 plus air fare
Hong Kong • Indonesia • Singapore Thailand * Philippines * Hong Kong
Hong Kong	3 Nights
Bali	3 Nights
Yogyakarta	2 Nights
Singapore	2 Nights
Bangkok	3 Nights
Manila	3 Nights
Hong Kong	2 Nights
r	a
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	American breakfast daily.
•	Lunch at Repulse Bay Hotel in Hong Kong.
•	Lunch at Kintamani, Bali.
•	Dinner in Singapore.
•	Thai dinner in Bangkok.
•	Lunch at the Oriental Hotel in Bangkok.
•	Fiesta Filipina dinner in Manila.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
•	Full day tour to Kintamani, Bali.
•	Thai cultural show in Bangkok.
•	Philippine cultural show.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
______________/
1ST DAY. SUNDAY:
USA/HONG KONG.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Hong Kong.
2ND DAY. MONDAY:
HONG KONG.
You’ve crossed the International Date Line, so it’s Monday evening when you arrive. Transfer to your hotel.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS.
HONG KONG.
Tuesday morning sightseeing of Hong Kong Island followed by lunch. Afternoon and all day Wednesday at leisure.
Tuesday morning you set off for a tour of Hong Kong Island stopping for lunch at the famous Repulse Bay Hotel. The afternoon and all day Wednesday is yours to explore the shops, take an optional tour to Kowloon and the New Territories, visit a pottery factory or take a harbor cruise. You will visit Hong Kong again on your way home, so why not order some new clothes and pick them up then?
5TH DAY. THURSDAY:
HONG KONG/BALI.
Morning free. Afternoon flight to Bali. Transfer to your hotel.
Relax this morning before leaving for the airport and Bali. This beautiful island will enchant you. The drive to your hotel is different from any other in Southeast Asia: Rice paddies on both sides of the road, a glimpse of the Java Sea and the Balinese riding water buffalo.
6TH AND 7TH DAYS.
BALI.
Friday, a full day tour to Kintamani, including lunch. Saturday is free.
On Friday, set off for a full day tour. You’ll have a magnificent view of Lake Batur with the Agung Volcano in the background. Historical places of interest are visited; Ubud, the home of both local and foreign artists, and the mysterious Goa Gajah Elephant Caves are only two of the many stops on this fascinating tour. This evening and all day Saturday are free. Perhaps take an optional tour to the temples at Mengwi or unwind by one of the two pools at your hotel.
8TH AND 9TH DAYS. BALI/YOGYAKARTA Sunday morning flight to Yogyakarta. Monday morning tour to Borobudur. Afternoon at leisure.
On your arrival you will be met and transferred to your hotel. This afternoon you could take an optional tour of the art and handicraft centres where you find woodcarvings, batiks and hand-beaten silver, or you could take a city tour. Monday morning you set off to visit one of the most famous temples in the world, the Borobudur Temple. You will also see nearby smaller temples, Pawon and Mendut. The afternoon and evening are free.
10