Thyang Boche Monastery, Kathmandu
12TH THROUGH 14TH DAYS. DELHI/KATHMANDU.
Friday afternoon flight to Nepal. Saturday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
On Friday afternoon you depart for the legendary city of Kathmandu. You’ll be met with warm Nepalese hospitality. Dinner this evening at your hotel which is famous for its food. Saturday morning your sightseeing takes you to the Durbar Square, Mahadev and Parveti Temples, the Temple House of Kunari, the home of the living goddess. The remainder of your time in Kathmandu is free. On Saturday and Sunday, dinner has been arranged at your hotel.
15TH DAY. MONDAY: KATHMANDU/BANGKOK.
Noon flight to Bangkok. Transfer on arrival. Evening free.
16TH AND 17TH DAYS. BANGKOK.
Tuesday free. Thai dinner and dances in the evening. Wednesday morning sightseeing. Afternoon and evening free.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a tremendous, sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisitely beautiful Oriental architecture to be seen in the East. Its traffic-clogged streets seem dismally dull when compared to the color and life of its intricate waterways, the klongs.
Tuesday is a free day. Time to take advantage of the antique shops perhaps? Visit the Rose Garden or, if you are an early riser, arrange for a tour of the klongs. Thai dinner and dancing this evening.
On Wednesday morning you’ll see three of Bangkok’s most famous temples—Wat Trimitr with its solid gold Buddha; Wat Benchamabopit, known as the Marble Temple; and Wat Po, with its magnificent reclining Buddha. This afternoon and evening are free.
18TH DAY. THURSDAY: BANGKOK/SINGAPORE.
Morning flight to Singapore. Transfer to your hotel. Afternoon and evening free.
On arrival in Singapore you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel. The impact of Singapore will be tremendous. Skyscrapers, trishaws, temples, hotels, a dozen nationalities celebrating their festivals. Singapore is a city of one-way streets. It is green, clean, beautiful, and so busy.
19TH AND 20TH DAYS. SINGAPORE.
Friday morning sightseeing.
Remainder of time at leisure.
Friday morning your tour will take you to the highlights of this city: The bustling waterfront, City Hall, the Supreme Court, Raffles Hotel, and the Tiger Balm Gardens. This afternoon is free. Try and pop into one of Singapore’s beautiful flower shops and have some orchids sent home to friends. These flowers last for weeks and make unusual gifts.
Wander down Change Alley where they sell anything from a paper-thin wrist-watch to a two-foot monkey wrench. Saturday is a free day. You could arrange a tour to Johore Bahru across the causeway in Malaysia or pick up those last minute gifts. Tomorrow you are homeward bound.
21ST DAY. SUNDAY: SINGAPORE/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line arriving in the USA Sunday morning.
(MR FARES: See page 36.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower. See descriptions beginning on page 2. During certain periods it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.		
City		Hotels
Hong Kong		Hilton
Delhi		Mauyra
Agra		Mughal
Jaipur		Mansingh
Kathmandu		Yak and Yeti
Bangkok		Montien
Singapore		Hilton
DEPARTURE DATES: From San Francisco on all dates shown.		
Depart		Return
USA		Singapore
Monday		Sunday
		1979
Apr	SO		May 20
May	28..		Jun 17
Jul	23..		Aug 12
Aug	20..		Sep 9
Sep	24..		Oct 14
Oct	8..		Oct 28
Oct	22..		Nov 11
Nov	5..		Nov 25
Nov	26..	
Dec	10..		Dec 30
Dec	24..		Jan 13
		1980
Jan	21..		Feb 10
Feb	4..		Feb 24
Feb	18..	
Mar	3..		Mar 23
Mar	17..		Apr 6
LAND PRICES: Per person	IT9PA142MD
Prices shown include all costs which can be prepaid, in addition, each person must pay various airport taxes of approximately $20.00.
Twin Single Triple
PANAMAC CODES:
SFO................. ZZ941N KKKLLL
Codes reflect gateway used.
Teletype Offices: Request from LAXSLPA.
15