Circle Pacific Discovery
30 days from ^1575 plus air fare
New Zealand • Australia • Indonesia • Singapore Thailand * Hong Kong • Japan
Auckland
Christchurch
Rotorua
Auckland
Melbourne
Sydney
Bali
Singapore Bangkok Hong Kong Kyoto Tokyo
1	Night
2	Nights 2 Nights
1	Night
2	Nights
3	Nights 3 Nights
2	Nights
3	Nights
4	Nights 2 Nights 2 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
• Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
• American breakfast daily.
Lunch at Waitomo.
Lunch at a sheep station in Canberra. Lunch at Kintamani, Bali.
Dinner in Singapore.
Thai dinner in Bangkok.
Lunch at the Oriental ih Bangkok. Two lunches in Hong Kong.
Tempura dinner in Kyoto.
Lunch at Chinzan-so in Tokyo.
2ND AND 3RD DAYS.
AUCKLAND.
You cross the International Date Line, lose a day, arriving in Auckland on Monday morning. Remainder of the day at leisure.
4TH DAY. TUESDAY: AUCKLAND/CHRISTCHURCH. Morning city sightseeing. Afternoon departure Christchurch. Evening free.
Auckland, in the North Island, is New Zealand’s largest city situated on a narrow isthmus between the Pacific Ocean and Tasman Sea. The drive from your hotel to the airport takes you through parks, past beautifully kept houses with neat gardens and rolling tracts of pasture where sheep and horses graze.
Tuesday morning’s tour takes you across the Auckland Harbor Bridge to the seaside suburbs; climb to the summit of Mount Eden; an extinct volcano, have a wonderful view of the city!
Your afternoon flight takes you to Christchurch, the largest city in the South Island and known as “the most English city outside England.” In the summertime, practically all the gardens are a mass of flowers, with every one competing for the “best garden” prize. Evening free.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
•	Maori dance concert in Rotorua.
•	Full day tour to Canberra.
•	Full day tour to Kintamani, Bali.
•	Thai dances in Bangkok.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Services of a Pan Am’s World Tour Escort during the entire tour.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
k	J
1ST DAY. SATURDAY: USA/AUCKLAND.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Auckland.
5TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: CHRISTCHURCH.
Free day.
Today is free. Arrange an optional tour to Mount Cook in the Southern Alps. Or you might choose to go to Akaroa, a small French style village and Banks Peninsula. Or, spend the day relaxing.
6TH AND 7TH DAYS. CHRISTCHURCH/ROTORUA. Thursday morning sightseeing. Afternoon departure for Rotorua. Transfer on arrival. Friday morning sightseeing. Maori dance concert.
Thursday morning you have a tour of Christchurch before leaving for Rotorua. Your comprehensive tour includes city and suburbs, drive up to Evans Pass and look down on Lyttleton Harbor to the Southern Alps and Canterbury Plains. This afternoon fly north to Rotorua.
Friday morning will take you to Whak-arewarewa Thermal Reserve, heart of Rotorua’s thermal wonderland, where
you’ll see geysers, craters and pools of boiling mud. Also visit the Maori Arts and Crafts Centre, Ohinemutu and the Rainbow Trout Springs, where you can feed tame trout by hand. This evening attend a Maori dance concert and watch a Maori group give a performance of traditional songs and dances.
8TH DAY. SATURDAY: ROTORUA/WAITOMO/ AUCKLAND.
Morning departure for Auckland, stopping to visit the Waitomo Glowworm Grotto en route. After lunch, continue to your hotel. Evening free.
Not far from Rotorua are the Waitomo Caves and their glowworm grottos. As you descend the steps, the damp underground breeze cools your face. At the bottom is a great pool, eerily silent. Here you board a rowboat and glide to the dark corners where thousands of shimmering blue and gold glowworm webs wrap around limestone outcroppings. Continue to Auckland after lunch. Tomorrow you leave bright and early for Melbourne.
32