General Information
Reservations. To qualify for Group Air Tariffs (GIT), reservations must be made at least 30 days before departure, but to assure reservations on popular tours or departures, book at least 42 days in advance.
Deposit. On all tours $100.00 deposit. These payments may be made with Pan Am Credit Travel Plan, Universal Air Travel Plan, American Express, Diners Club (also Torch Club), Master Charge, BankAmericard (Visa) or Carte Blanche.
Final Payment is due 42 days prior to departure of the tour.
Cancellations. Full refund will be made for cancellations received up to 35 days before the departure date. Cancellations received within 34 days of the departure date will be subject to a cancellation fee of $35.00 plus any cancellation fees charged by local operators or hotels due to late notification.
For cancellations on the Southern Cross tour received 21 days or less prior to departure, forfeiture of 25 % of the applicable GIT air fare is required in accordance with regulations of the International Air Transport Association. The same 25% forfeiture rule applies to cancellations on all other tours received 7 days or less prior to departure.
Ask your travel agent for a full explanation of these regulations.
Refund of Unused Tour Arrangements.
Unused hotel accommodations or any other unused service or feature of any tour are not refundable nor exchangeable for other accommodations, services or features. All refund claims must be submitted within 60 days of completion of the tour.
Possible Changes in Itinerary. On occasion, conditions or situations beyond our control may require revisions to the itineraries shown. Every effort shall be made, however, to ensure that such changes maintain the intent of the itinerary as closely as those conditions permit.
Air Transportation. Tour participants will travel round-trip by regularly scheduled Pan Am economy class jet services. The services of other carriers may be used for flights within the USA and during portions of the tours overseas. Tour prices are based on Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) tariffs as indicated on page 36. All air fares are subject to government approval. A US Government International Transportation Tax of $3.00 per person is applicable to all departures.
Special Fares Within the USA are available from many cities to the Gateways used in conjunction with GIT fares. These fares include “Add-on fares” and special domestic fares (conditions permitting) which may save you money over normal coach fares. Your Travel Agent can provide details.
For passengers wishing to return via Japan and/or Hawaii, a higher air fare may be applicable which must be included in the passenger’s ticket. Ask your Travel Agent for details when making your booking. The listed Extensions must be ticketed along with the selected tour.
Transfers. Motorcoach transfers between airports and hotels are provided. In some cases, transfers will be effected by private car. Transfers are provided for all passengers who arrive and depart on flights booked for the group. Passengers arriving and departing independently are responsible for their own transfers.
Surface Transportation. All sightseeing, as well as overland motorcoach transportation will be conducted in air-conditioned coaches wherever possible. When tour membership
falls below 15, the tour operator reserves the right to provide sightseeing on a seat-incoach/ car basis. In Japan, tourist class rail seats are reserved.
Hotels. Tour costs are based on two persons sharing a twin-bedded room with private bath or shower. A limited number of single rooms is available at the price shown for each tour. Triple room accommodations are based on a twin-bedded room with a folding or roll-away bed for the third person. The right is reserved to substitute hotels of similar or higher category to those shown in the brochure should circumstances make it necessary. Check-out is noon time in most hotels. Tour participants arriving on early morning flights may therefore be obliged to wait until their rooms have been vacated by the previous occupant. Hotels will do their best to get you settled as soon as possible and your understanding of the situation is appreciated.
Meals. American breakfasts are provided throughout the program. Dinner or lunch is included in India, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Pattaya. In addition, many other meals and entertainment are provided as indicated in the tour copy pertaining to each itinerary.
Baggage. To/from the USA. Limited to a maximum of 2 pieces of luggage, the combined total dimensions of both bags may not exceed 106 inches or exceed 35 Kilograms (77 lbs.). One or more pieces of carry-on luggage is allowed, the total combined dimensions may not exceed 45 inches.
From Japan and within the Orient and Pacific, free baggage allowance on board aircraft is 20 kilograms (44 lbs.) per person. One piece of carry-on luggage is allowed. Strict enforcement of the regulations will be adhered to. All excess baggage charges will be collected at the airport.
Baggage is at “owner’s risk” throughout the surface portion of the tour unless properly insured.
Tips and Taxes. Hotel and restaurant service charges and taxes where applicable are included throughout. Tips to hosts, drivers and guides may be extended on a purely individual and voluntary basis if felt desirable.
Porter’s Tips. Tips to porters for baggage are included in the tour prices. Porterage is included only after you have passed through the customs area of the airport. Flight bags or tote bags must be carried by the tour member.
All Departures are subject to a minimum of 10 participants. In the unlikely event that this number does not materialize well in advance of departure, you will be offered either a departure on the same date but via a different departure point, or a different departure date or comparable tour, or a full refund on the deposit paid.
Local Host Service will be provided in each city on all Trend-Setter tours.
Tour Escorts. All Escorted tours will include the full-time services of a professional Pan Am’s World Escort who will accompany the group from arrival airport to departure airport. In addition, a local Pan Am’s World Host will be provided in each city. In the event that an escorted tour departure does not reach membership of 15, the operator reserves the right to refund the prorated cost of escort service to each tour member and substitute local host service on the tour.
A Note On Holidays. During local or national holidays abroad, certain facilities such as museums, sightseeing tours and shopping may be limited. If your enjoyment of the tour
might be diminished by such limitations, please check for holidays with National Tourist Offices before selecting a departure date.
Not Included in the Cost of the Tour. Passport and visa costs; all items of a purely personal nature, such as laundry, telephone calls, shopping expenses, etc.; beverages or meal items not included in the table d’hote menus provided on a group basis; meals not indicated in the itinerary; sightseeing and tours other than those specifically included; tips to guides and drivers; excess baggage charges.
All Tour Prices are based on tariffs, and currency exchange rates in effect on July 1, 1978 and are subject to change .
Validity of this brochure is from April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980.
Travel Documents Required. A passport valid for the length of your journey, complete with visas necessary for the program taken, as well as an International Vaccination Certificate must be in your possession. For information concerning visas or necessary immunizations, check with your travel agent of with your local Pan Am office. You may wish to discuss recommended immunizations with your personal physician.
Responsibility. Pan American World Airways, Inc. and/or its agents assume no responsibility or liability in connection with the service of any train, vessel, carriage, aircraft, motor, or other conveyance which may be used wholly or in part, in the performance of their duty to the passengers, neither will they be responsible for any act, error, or omission, or for any injury, loss, accident, delay or irregularity which may be occasioned by reason of any defect in any vehicle, or through neglect or default of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger; or for any hotel proprietor, or for any other person, engaged in carrying out the purpose for which tickets or coupons are issued. In the event it becomes necessary or advisable for the comfort or well being of the passengers, or for any reason whatsoever, to alter the itinerary or arrangements, such alterations may be made without penalty to the tour operators. Additional expenses, if any, shall be borne by the passengers. The right is reserved to withdraw any or all tours should conditions warrant, also to decline to accept or retain any passenger as a member of a tour.
In such instances, full or equitable amount will be refunded, but this amount shall not exceed the amount paid by the passengers.
No refund can be made for any feature of the program not used by the passenger during operation of the tour. The sole responsibility of any airline used in any tour is limited to that set out in the passenger contract evidenced by the ticket. Airlines and other carriers are not responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyances. Similar responsibility as noted above applies to all types of carriers, including car rental companies. In addition to Pan American World Airways, the services of any IATA and ATA carrier may be used in connection with these tours.
Photographs. Cover: Jumbo Floating Restaurant, Hong Kong. (Credit: Photo Researchers —George Holton.)
Contents: Taj Mahal, Agra, India.
Places pictured are in the geographical area but may not be included in specific tours described herein.
Travel Industry Act of Ontario Registration Number 1412996.
Air fares quoted within this book are subject to change.