Orient, India & Sri Lanka
21 days from $624 plus air fare
Hong Kong • India • Sri Lanka	
Thailand	• Hong Kong
Hong Kong	3 Nights
Delhi	4 Nights
Agra	1 Night
Jaipur	2 Nights
Madras	2 Nights
Colombo	3 Nights
Bangkok	3 Nights
Hong Kong	1 Night
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	American breakfast daily.
•	Lunch at Repulse Bay in Hong Kong.
•	Dinner or lunch in India.
•	Dinner in Colombo including gala dinner.
•	Thai dinner in Bangkok.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
•	Special sightseeing tour of the Taj Mahal in Agra.
•	Tour of the Pink City of Jaipur.
•	Thai dancing in Bangkok.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Services of a Pan Am’s World Tour Escort during the entire tour.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. MONDAY:
USA/HONG KONG.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Hong Kong.
2ND DAY. TUESDAY:
HONG KONG.
You’ve crossed the International Date Line, so it’s Tuesday evening when you arrive. Transfer to your hotel.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS.
HONG KONG.
Wednesday morning sightseeing of Kowloon and the New Territories. Thursday morning sightseeing of Hong Kong Island, followed by lunch.
Wednesday morning you cross the harbor and set off for Kowloon and the New Territories. You’ll drive through the industrial area to the old walled village of Kam Tin; then reach Lok Ma Chau Police Post where you can see the People’s Republic of China. This afternoon would be a good time to shop or have your first fitting with that famous Hong Kong tailor.
Thurdsay morning’s tour takes you up to Victoria Peak to gaze out over all Hong Kong. You’ll see the commercial centre, the banking area, Susie Wong’s Wanchai district, Happy Valley, and on to Repulse Bay for lunch.
5TH DAY. FRIDAY:
HONG KONG/DELHI.
Free until you transfer to the airport for your flight to Delhi.
Today you’ll have plenty of time to shop, revisit the Peak, perhaps have lunch there, take the ferry across to Kowloon, or send those small gifts home. This evening your Pan Am Jet Clipper takes you to India.
6TH THROUGH 8TH DAYS. DELHI.
Early arrival in Delhi on Saturday morning. Free day. Sunday morning sightseeing of New Delhi. Remainder of time at leisure. Dinner every evening at your hotel.
You will be met with warm Indian hospitality and transferred to your hotel. Saturday is free to allow you to catch up on some sleep. This afternoon you may want to visit the National Museum, buy Indian silks in a bazaar or make arrangements to see the magnificent Son et Lumiere at the Red Fort.
Sunday morning’s tour takes you to Humayun’s Tomb, the War Memorial, Lakshminarayan Temple, past the President’s house, Parliament House and other places of interest. Dinner at your hotel this evening. Don’t forget to try the Tandoori Chicken, it’s delicious.
Monday is free. You could arrange an optional tour of Old Delhi or relax by the pool. Tomorrow you have an early departure for Agra.
9TH DAY. TUESDAY:
DELHI/AGRA.
Early departure for Agra. Transfer to the hotel. Afternoon sightseeing. Dinner at hotel.
If there is only one place to visit in your life, it should be Agra for the Taj. After lunch your tour will take you right to the Taj Mahal, then to Agra Fort and other places of interest. If there is a full moon while visiting Agra, you may want to go back and visit the Taj Mahal after enjoying dinner at your hotel.
26