Ceremonial Dancer, Bali
14TH DAY. FRIDAY:
SYDNEY/BALI.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Bali.
A morning flight takes you to the fabled isle of Bali, a sun drenched island paradise populated by a warm, smiling people whose childlike innocence will enchant you. Relax .. . unwind . . . and soak up all of the magic.
15TH AND 16TH DAYS.
BALI.
Saturday, a full day tour to Kintamani, including lunch. Sunday is free.
On Saturday, set off for a full-day tour. You’ll have a magnificent view of Lake Batur with the Agung Volcano in the background. Historical places of interest are visited; Ubud, the home of both local and foreign artists and the mysterious Goa Gajah Elephant Caves are only two of the many stops on this fascinating tour.
Sunday is free.
17TH AND 18TH DAYS. BALI/SINGAPORE.
Monday morning departure for Singapore. Afternoon at leisure. Dinner at hotel. Tuesday morning sightseeing; afternoon and evening free.
On arrival in Singapore you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel. The impact of Singapore after Indonesia will be tremendous. Skyscrapers, trishaws, temples, hotels, a dozen nationalities celebrating their festivals. Singapore is a city of one-way streets. Dinner this evening at your hotel.
Tuesday morning’s tour visits the highlights of this city: The bustling waterfront,
City Hall, the Supreme Court, Raffles Hotel, and the Tiger Balm Gardens. Remainder of time at leisure.
19TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: SINGAPORE/BANGKOK.
Afternoon flight to Bangkok. Transfer on arrival to your hotel.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisitely beautiful Oriental architecture to be seen in the East. On arrival, transfer to your hotel.
20TH AND 21ST DAYS. BANGKOK.
Thursday free. Evening Thai dinner and dances. Friday morning sightseeing. Lunch at the Oriental Hotel.
Thursday has been left free for you to explore on your own, perhaps go to the Rose Garden? This evening watch a performance of Thai dancing while enjoying dinner.
Friday morning’s tour takes you to the Royal Palace area. Visit Wat Phra Keo, the home of the Emerald Buddha. Lunch at the Oriental Hotel.
22ND DAY. SATURDAY: BANGKOK/HONG KONG.
Morning flight to Hong Kong. Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Afternoon and evening free.
On arrival in Hong Kong, settle down in your hotel and then begin your stay here by exploring on your own.
23RD THROUGH 25TH DAYS. HONG KONG.
Sunday morning, a tour of Kowloon and the New Territories, followed by lunch. Monday morning tour of Hong Kong Island, followed by lunch at Repulse Bay. Tuesday is free.
Sunday morning’s tour drives you out as far as the border of the People’s Republic of China. En route you will pass through the New Territories settlement areas, visit an ancient walled village and see the farmlands of the ancient Hakkas. Lunch will be at the Carlton Hotel.
Monday morning tour of Hong Kong Island up to Victoria Peak to gaze out over all of Hong Kong. See the commercial centre, the banking area, Susie Wong’s Wanchai district and Happy Valley. Lunch at Repulse Bay Hotel. Remainder of time at leisure. Tuesday free.
26TH AND 27TH DAYS.
HONG KONG/KYOTO.
Wednesday fly to Osaka; then transfer to your hotel in Kyoto. Thursday morning sightseeing. Dinner this evening at your hotel.
Thursday morning you’ll visit some fascinating places: Nijo Castle built as the Kyoto residence of the Tokugawa military regents, the Gold Pavilion and the Old Imperial Palace. This afternoon you can visit Sanjusangen-do with its thousand-and-one gilded statues of Kannon Bosatsu, the Goddess of Mercy, or you can explore Kyoto’s shops for traditional handicrafts. A tempura dinner has been arranged at your hotel.
28TH AND 29TH DAYS. KYOTO/TOKYO.
Friday, Bullet Train to Tokyo. Saturday morning sightseeing, followed by luncheon.
Friday you’ll streak up to Tokyo by one of Japan’s famed Bullet Trains and transfer to your hotel. Remainder of time free.
Saturday morning you’ll visit the Imperial Palace Plaza, the National Diet Building, the Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and the busy Asakusa Amusement Centre. Luncheon will be served at the famed Chinzan-so Restaurant and features a delightful variety of grilled meats and vegetables cooked on slate grills. Afternoon is free to stroll down the Ginza, or get together with your friends to see the revue at the Kokusai Theatre, a spectacular show at the largest theatre in the Orient. Tomorrow you are homeward bound.
30TH DAY. SUNDAY:
TOKYO/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line arriving in the USA Sunday morning.
34