Pacific Overtures


17 days from $729 plus air fare
Japan • Thailand • Malaysia • Singapore Philippines • Hong Kong
Tokyo	3 Nights
Kyoto	2 Nights
Bangkok	2 Nights
Kuala Lumpur	1 Night
Singapore	2 Nights
Manila	2 Nights
Hong Kong	3 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
• Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
• American breakfast daily.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features. (See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/TOKYO.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Tokyo.
The Imperial Palace Plaza is the first stop on your afternoon tour, followed by the National Diet Building, the beautiful Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and the Asakusa Amusement Centre. While at leisure, you might explore the Ginza district where some of Tokyo’s richest stores crowd amongst a bewildering variety of cafes, restaurants and china shops.
Radiance in a Tokyo Shrine
City” was the centre of Japanese civilization for 10 centuries and was the Imperial capital until 1868. Its streets are a succession of mansions, temples and shrines, presided over by the Emperor’s ancient palace. Nijo Castle, another former residence of the Imperial Family, is a moated 17th-century structure complete with turrets and profusely decorated with wood sculpture, carvings and murals.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
TOKYO.
You’ve crossed the International Date Line, so it’s Saturday afternoon when you arrive. Transfer to your hotel. Evening is free.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS.
TOKYO.
Sunday morning free. Afternoon city sightseeing. Free day Monday.
Tokyo, known as Edo before Emperor Meiji made it his home in 1868, is the home of over 100 universities enrolling half a million students. Though its real estate is costlier, its traffic heavier and its streets more crowded, once having visited Tokyo it is impossible to forget.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY: TOKYO/KYOTO.
To Kyoto by Bullet Train. Afternoon sightseeing.
Streak down to Kyoto this morning at 125 m.p.h. aboard one of Japan’s famed Bullet Trains. This afternoon, visit charming Kinkaku-ji in its lovely garden setting; Sanjusangen-do, with its thousand and one gilded statues of Kannon Bosatsu, the Goddess of Mercy, the vermilion lacquered Heian Shrine and the tranquil Kiyomizu Temple.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
KYOTO.
A free day to explore on your own.
Kyoto has become synonymous with the very spirit of Japan. The “Celestial
7TH DAY. THURSDAY: KYOTO/BANGKOK.
By coach to Osaka for your flight to Bangkok. Transfer to your hotel.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY:
BANGKOK.
Morning tour of city and temples. Afternoon free.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a tremendous, sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisite Oriental architecture to be seen in the East.
This morning you’ll see three of Bangkok’s most famous temples—Wat Trimitr, with its solid gold Buddha; Wat Benchamabopit, known as the Marble Temple; and Wat Po, with its magnificent reclining Buddha.
8