Asian Affair ^
15 days from $374 plus air fare
Hong Kong • Thailand • Malaysia • Singapore
Hong Kong	3	Nights
Bangkok	3	Nights
Penang	2	Nights
Singapore	2	Nights
Kuala Lumpur	2 Nights
Hong Kong	1 Night
✓	...... A
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	American breakfast daily.
•	Dinner at the Melaka Grill in Kuala Lumpur.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Pan Am’s World Host to assist you with your touring plans.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features. (See Inside Front Cover).
✓
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA/HONG KONG.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Hong Kong.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
HONG KONG.
You’ve crossed the International Date Line, so it’s Saturday evening when you arrive. Transfer to your hotel.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS.
HONG KONG.
Sunday free. Monday morning sightseeing.
You have plenty of time on your own in Hong Kong. Take the ferry across the harbor to Kowloon, where the reflections from the jewelry-shop windows hit the
streets with a ricochet of light. Buy a dozen or so custom-made shirts. The tailor keeps your measurements—you just re-order. Why not take a sunset harbor cruise aboard the Wan Fu this evening?
Monday morning’s tour drives you out as far as the border of the People’s Republic of China. En route you will pass through the New Territories settlement areas, visit an ancient walled village and see the farmlands of the ancient Hakkas.
Afternoon and evening free.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY:
HONG KONG/BANGKOK.
Fly to Bangkok. Transfer to your hotel. Remainder of the day at leisure.
6TH AND 7TH DAYS.
BANGKOK.
Wednesday and Thursday morning sightseeing. Afternoons free.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a tremendous, sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisitely beautiful Oriental architecture to be seen in the East. On Wednesday morning, you’ll see some of Bangkok’s most famous temples. Thursday morning, you’ll cruise along the klongs (waterways) and view the floating market.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY: BANGKOK/PENANG.
Morning free, then transfer to the airport for your flight to Penang.
This morning you’ll have time to pick up one or two small gifts of Thai silk before leaving for the airport for your flight to Penang. On arrival you will be met and transferred to your hotel situated on beautiful Batu Ferringhi Beach. Enjoy a welcome drink by the poolside.
9TH DAY. SATURDAY:
PENANG.
Morning tour of the city. Remainder of time at leisure.
Penang, “Pearl of the Orient,” is an island of waving palm trees, glorious beaches and spice plantations. This morning’s tour of the city includes Fort Cornwallis, the Reclining Buddha, the Botanical Gardens and the Penang Museum.
This afternoon you can relax on the beautiful beach of your hotel or take a tour to Penang Hill.
10TH DAY. SUNDAY: PENANG/SINGAPORE.
Morning at leisure. Afternoon departure for Singapore. Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Remainder of the day at leisure.
11TH DAY. MONDAY: SINGAPORE.
Morning sightseeing. Afternoon and evening free.
Back to the hustle and bustle of city life. Singapore is the cleanest, brightest, busiest city in Southeast Asia. You can buy anything—orchids, precision-made tools from Switzerland, cameras from Japan, or Oriental antiques. You can enjoy that New York-cut steak or continue with Malay curry or Chinese food.
In Singapore, you can do anything. This morning’s tour takes you to all the highlights of Singapore. Afternoon and evening are free.
12TH AND 13TH DAYS. SINGAPORE/KUALA LUMPUR. Tuesday morning departure for Kuala Lumpur. Afternoon sightseeing. Wednesday free. Farewell dinner at the Melaka Grill.
On arrival in Kuala Lumpur, the capital of Malaysia, you will be met and transferred to your hotel. This afternoon’s sightseeing takes you to the University of Malaya—Malaysia’s first university, along the Lake Gardens, passing the House of Parliament, National Monument and the National Mosque. This evening you must visit the “Tin-Mine,” a simply fantastic disco situated right in your hotel. Wednesday you can explore on your own. Perhaps visit “Pineapple Hill” easily reached by cablecar. Here the handicraft centre carries pewter, silver and brass ware; batiks, woodcarvings,