r
V
Extensions
TOUR FEATURES
N
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Air-conditioned hotel accommodations with private bath or shower.
•	Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels included.
•	Half-day city sightseeing tour.
•	Bullet Train ride in Japan (EXT 2).

SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Flower lei greeting on arrival in Hawaii.
•	Services of your Pan Am’s World Host.
/
Japan
Extension I: 4 Days/3 Nights
1st Day: Arrive Tokyo and transfer to
hotel. Remainder of time at leisure.
2nd Day: Today your morning Tokyo city sightseeing takes you to the Imperial Palace, National Diet Building, Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and the Asakusa Amusement Centre. This afternoon and evening are free.
3rd Day: Free to explore on your own or take an optional excursion to Nikko.
4th Day: Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line arriving in the USA the same morning.
Extension 2: 5 Days/4 Nights 1st Day: Arrive Osaka and transfer to hotel in Kyoto. Remainder of day free. 2nd Day: Morning tour of Kyoto takes you to Nijo Castle, built as the Kyoto residence of the Tokugawa Military Regents, the Gold Pavilion and the Old Imperial Palace and other interesting places. This afternoon and evening free. 3rd Day: By Bullet Train this morning from Kyoto to Tokyo. Transfer to your hotel. Remainder of day at leisure.
4th Day: Today your morning sightseeing visits the Imperial Palace, National Diet Building, Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and the Asakusa Amusement Centre. Remainder of day free.
5th Day: Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line arriving in the USA the same morning.
Hotels: Tokyo—Hilton
Kyoto—New Miyako
LAND COSTS: per person	Twin	Single
Extension 1	$278	$363
Extension 2	$488	$595
Triple on request • Add additional departure tax of		
$5.00 per person on the Japan extensions.		
Panamac Booking Info: In separate TUR segment enter “NN Japan 1 (or Japan 2) EXT" with IN/OUT dates. Book arrival/homebound flights to/from Japan.
J
Hawaii
Extension 1: 4 Days/3 Nights 1st Day: Arrive Honolulu and receive the traditional flower lei greeting. Transfer to your hotel.
2nd Day: Today’s city sightseeing will include Iolani Palace, the only Royal Palace on American soil; Punchbowl, extinct volcano crater is now the site of the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific; University of Hawaii; and the Waioli Tea Room.
3rd Day: At leisure.
4th Day: Transfer to the airport for your flight home.
Extension 2: 5 Days/4 Nights 1st Day: Arrive Honolulu and receive the traditional flower lei greeting. Transfer to your hotel.
2nd Day: Today’s city sightseeing will include Iolani Palace, the only Royal Palace on American soil; Punchbowl, extinct volcano crater which is now the site of the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific; University of Hawaii; and the Waioli Tea Room.
3rd and 4th Days: At leisure. The island is yours to do as you please.
5th Day: Transfer to the airport for your flight home.
NOTE: The Extensions shown are available at the end of all tours except the Southern Cross.
If the air fare utilized on the tour is a group inclusive tour fare (GIT), the total duration of the tour including the Extensions may not exceed 35 days without incurring a higher air fare.
All extensions are on request and must be purchased prior to departure.
Hotel: Honolulu—Ilikai		
LAND COSTS: per person	Twin	Single
Extension 1	$115	$205
Extension 2	$150	$265
Triple on request • Add additional departure tax of $3.00 per person on the Hawaii extensions.		
Panamac Booking Info: In separate TUR segment enter “NN Hawaii 1 (or Hawaii 2) EXT" with IN/OUT dates. Book arrival/homebound flights to/from Hawaii.
35