Orient Swing 0
21 days from $1008 plus air fare
Japan • Hong Kong • Philippines Singapore • Malaysia • Thailand • Hong Kong
Tokyo	3 Nights
Kyoto	2 Nights
Hong Kong	2 Nights
Manila	2 Nights
Davao	2 Nights
Singapore	2 Nights
Kuala Lumpur	2 Nights
Bangkok	3 Nights
Hong Kong	1 Night
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	American breakfast daily.
•	Lunch at Chinzan-so in Tokyo.
•	Tempura dinner in Kyoto.
•	Lunch at Carlton Hotel in Hong Kong.
•	Fiesta Filipina dinner in Manila.
•	Dinner while in Davao.
•	Lunch at Madrid Restaurant in Manila.
•	Thai dinner in Bangkok.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels including porterage.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in each city.
•	Cultural show in Manila.
•	Two day excursion to Davao.
•	Thai dances in Bangkok.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Services of a Pan Am’s World Tour Escort during the entire tour.
•	“Welcome packet” containing city map and other useful material.
(On arrival).
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
7
1ST DAY. SUNDAY:
USA/TOKYO.
Depart aboard your Pan Am Jet Clipper bound for Tokyo.
2ND DAY. MONDAY:
TOKYO.
You’ve crossed the International Date Line, so it’s Monday afternoon when you arrive. Transfer to your hotel. Evening is free.
3RD AND 4TH DAYS.
TOKYO.
Tuesday city sightseeing. Chinzan-so luncheon. Free afternoon. Free day Wednesday.
The Imperial Palace Plaza, the National Diet Building, the Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and the busy Asakusa Amusement Centre highlight this morning’s Tokyo tour. Get-together luncheon will be served at the famed Chinzan-so Restaurant and features a delightful variety of grilled meats and vegetables cooked on slate grills.
On Wednesday you’re free to visit the ancient city of Nikko or shop in the marvelous Ginza district.
5TH AND 6TH DAYS. TOKYO/KYOTO.
By Bullet Train to Kyoto on Thursday. Tempura dinner this evening. Friday morning sightseeing.
Thursday you’ll streak down to Kyoto by one of Japan’s famed Bullet Trains, transfer to your hotel and then later rejoin your friends for a tempura dinner.
Friday morning you’ll visit some fascinating places; Nijo Castle built as the Kyoto residence of the Tokugawa military regents, the Gold Pavilion and the Old Imperial Palace. This afternoon you can visit Sanjusangen-do with its thousand and one gilded statues of Kannon Bosatsu, the Goddess of Mercy, or you can explore Kyoto’s shops for traditional handicrafts.
7TH AND 8TH DAYS. KYOTO/HONG KONG.
On Saturday, transfer to Osaka for your flight to Hong Kong. Sunday morning sightseeing, followed by lunch. Remainder of time at leisure.
On arrival transfer to your hotel. This afternoon you could arrange a tour of Hong Kong Island or ride the ferry across the harbor to Kowloon, buy a dozen or so custom-made shirts. You will come back to Hong Kong, so why not pick them up then?
24
Scenic Singapore