9TH AND 10TH DAYS. AUCKLAND/MELBOURNE.
Sunday fly to Melbourne. Transfer on arrival. Afternoon free. Monday morning sightseeing; afternoon and evening at leisure.
On Sunday morning fly across the Tasman Sea to Melbourne. On arrival you will be met and transferred to your hotel, which is within walking distance of Fitzroy Gardens.
Monday morning’s tour takes you past the stately government buildings, the sporting fields of the 1960 Olympics and the Arts Centre. See the many beautiful parks and gardens for which Melbourne is known. This afternoon, explore the exquisite boutiques or stroll along the bank of the River Yarra.
11TH DAY. TUESDAY:
MELBOURNE/CANBERRA/
SYDNEY.
Fly to Canberra. Full day tour of the city plus a visit to a sheep station.
Lunch included; then on to Sydney.
From Melbourne, fly to Canberra and begin an exciting full-day tour of the national capital combined with a visit to a sheep station. Visit the Australian War Memorial, the Commonwealth Gardens and the National Library. At the sheep station, enjoy a hearty Australian lunch. Return to the airport and fly to Sydney.
12TH AND 13TH DAYS.
SYDNEY.
Wednesday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
Wednesday morning, your tour visits the historic Rocks area near “Coathanger” Bridge, through Paddington, where the restored houses look as if the terraces have been made from iron-lace. Onto the magic of the Opera House.
With your free time, you can visit Taronga Park Zoo, where you can actually see those legendary koalas, walk along the winding paths to discover the Australian bird sanctuary and rare species enclosure. Evening is free.
(continued on next page)
AIR FARES: See page 36.
HOTELS: All with private bath or shower.	
See descriptions beginning on page 2. During certain periods	
it may be necessary to book hotels of a similar category.	
City	Hotels
Auckland	TraveLodge
Christchurch	White Heron TraveLodge
Rotorua	White Heron Caravel
Melbourne	Hilton
Sydney	Hyatt Kingsgate
Bali	InterContinental
Singapore	Hilton
Bangkok	Montien
Hong Kong	Hilton
Kyoto	New Miyako
Tokyo	Hilton
DEPARTURE DATES:	
From Los Angeles on all dates shown.	
Depart	Return
USA	Tokyo
Saturday	Sunday
	1979
Apr 14..		May 13
May 12..		Jun 10
Jun 9..		Jul 8
Jul 14..		Aug 12
Aug 11..		Sep 9
Sep 8..		Oct 7
Oct 20..		Nov 18
Dec 1..		Dec 30
	1980
Jan 19..		Feb 17
Mar 15..		Apr 13
LAND PRICES: Per person	IT9PA142MQ
Prices shown include all costs which can be prepaid. In addition, each person must pay various airport taxes of approximately $19.00.
Twin Single Triple

$1556	$1998
$1507
J
PANAMAC CODES:
LAX.................ZZ943N RRRTTT
Codes reflect gateway used.
Teletype Offices: Request from LAXSLPA.
33