MADRAS
PENANG
Chola: Moderate First class hotel situated a short distance from the airport and the ocean. All rooms are air-conditioned with individual temperature control. 24-hour room service. International restaurants, coffee shop, cocktail lounge, shopping arcade, swimming pool.
Casuarina Beach Hotel: Moderate Modern first class hotel situated on 5 acres of Batu Ferringhi Beach. All rooms have seaview and balconies, dressing areas, individual temperature control. Coffee shop, seafood restaurant, open-air bar, swimming pool.
QUEENSTOWN
TraveLodge: Moderate First class resort complex overlooking Lake Wakatipu. 140 air-conditioned rooms with phone, TV, refrigerator. Restaurant, bar, swimming pool.
Tokyo Hilton
SINGAPORE
Singapore Hilton: Superior Modern deluxe hotel with magnificent views of Singapore Island. 450 air-conditioned rooms with phone, music and TV. Rooftop restaurant, grill room, coffee shop and bar. Swimming pool, sauna and shopping arcade.
SYDNEY
Hyatt Kingsgate: Moderate Excellent first class hotel in the heart of Kings Cross, with a spectacular view of the Opera House. All rooms are handsomely appointed with coffee/teamaking facilities. Coffee shop, lobby bar, cocktail lounge, international restaurant. Swimming pool, disco.
TOKYO
Tokyo Hilton: Superior Deluxe hotel minutes from the centre of Tokyo. All rooms are luxuriously appointed. 24-hour room service. Grill room, international restaurants, coffee shop, tea lounge, cocktail lounge, garden bar. Swimming pool.
YOGYAKARTA
MANILA
Manila Inter •Continental: Superior Deluxe hotel situated in Makati. All rooms are well appointed. Air-conditioning, Rôtisserie. Coffee shop, cocktail lounge, free-form swimming pool set in landscaped gardens. Disco.
ROTORUA
White Heron Caravel: Moderate First class resort motel opposite golf course and convenient to all attractions in the thermal area. 55 rooms with phone, radio and TV. Restaurant and bar, swimming pool.
Ambarrukmo: Moderate Placed in the romantic setting of Java’s history. All rooms have a view of the surrounding tropical greenery, and are uniquely designed, blending Javanese charm with modern-day efficiency. International cuisine, a mini-museum, extensive gardens, shopping arcade, swimming pool.
MELBOURNE
Melbourne Hilton: Superior Situated overlooking Fitzroy Gardens and Yarra Park. Only 5 minutes from city centre. All 428 rooms have individual climate control, color TV and refrigerator. A second floor resort area includes outdoor heated pool, sauna and massage. Excellent restaurants, coffee shop, cocktail lounge.
PATTAYA
Royal Cliff Beach Hotel: Superior Resort complex on the Gulf of Siam. All rooms have wall-to-wall carpeting, air-conditioning, balconies overlooking the water. Private beach, coffee shop, cocktail lounge, grill room. Acres of tropical gardens with tennis courts, bowling alley and 2 swimming pools. Shopping arcade.
Chola Hotel, Madras