There are also enormous railway stations which look as if they were pulled straight out of the movie “Bhowani Junction.”
This morning’s tour takes you to the museum, Victoria Public Hall, Government House and the Light House, which has a tower 160 feet high, and on to Fort St. George. This afternoon is free, perhaps take an optional excursion to Mahabalipuram, famous for the Seven Pagodas and the interesting rock-hewn temples on the beautiful seashore. Be back in time for dinner.
14TH THROUGH 16TH DAYS. MADRAS/COLOMBO.
Sunday fly to Colombo. Monday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
On arrival in Colombo you will be met and transferred to your hotel, which has been suitably described as one of the grand hotels of Asia. The drive from the airport takes you past small villages and rivers where buffalo bathe. Your hotel is right on the ocean and this evening you’ll dine on the outside lawn under the stars. Monday morning you’ll visit City Hall, Independence Square, and the Museum. This afternoon is free.
Dinner this evening on the Sea Terrace. Tuesday is free, perhaps take an optional tour to either Kandy or Bentota. Be back in time for a gala dinner.
17TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: COLOMBO/BANGKOK.
Free until departure for Bangkok. Transfer on arrival to your hotel.
18TH AND 19TH DAYS. BANGKOK.
Thursday morning sightseeing. Friday evening Thai dinner and dances.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a tremendous, sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisitely beautiful Oriental architecture to be seen in the East. Its traffic-clogged streets seem dismally dull when compared to the color and life of its intricate waterways, the klongs. On arrival transfer to your hotel.
Thursday morning you’ll see three of Bangkok’s most famous temples—Wat Trimitr, with its solid gold Buddha; Wat Benchamabopit, known as the Marble Temple; and Wat Po, with its magnificent reclining Buddha.
Friday is free for you to look for Thai silk, antiques, star sapphires, or even wicker baskets. Or you can get up bright and early and take a tour of the klongs. This evening you watch Thai dancing while enjoying dinner.
20TH DAY. SATURDAY: BANGKOK/HONG KONG. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Hong Kong. Day at leisure.
Back to Hong Kong on Saturday morning for one last look. Perhaps to have a final fitting at that marvelous Hong Kong tailor. Tomorrow you are homeward bound, so make sure you have all those last minute gifts.
21ST DAY. SUNDAY:
HONG KONG/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home. You recross the International Date Line, arriving in the USA Sunday morning.
Time to take a bath, Colombo