5TH DAY. FRIDAY:
HONG KONG/DELHI.
Free until you transfer to the airport for your flight to Delhi.
On your final day in Hong Kong you’ll have plenty of time to shop, revisit the Peak, perhaps have lunch there, take the ferry across to Kowloon, or send those small gifts home. This evening your Pan Am Jet Clipper takes you to India.
6TH THROUGH 8TH DAYS. DELHI/AGRA.
Early arrival in Delhi on Saturday morning. Free day. Sunday morning sightseeing of New Delhi. Remainder of the time at leisure until Monday evening departure for Agra.
You will be met and transferred to your hotel. Saturday has been left free for you to rest or make arrangements to see the magnificent Son et Lumiere after dinner
this evening, or look for Indian silks in a bazaar. Dinner at your hotel, one of the newest in Delhi.
Sunday morning’s tour takes you to Humayun’s Tomb, the War Memorial, Lakshminarayan Temple, past the President’s house, Parliament House and other places of interest. Dinner at your hotel this evening. Don’t forget to try the Tandoori Chicken, it’s delicious.
Monday is free until your departure for Agra. You could arrange an optional tour of Old Delhi or just relax by the pool.
On your arrival in Agra, you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel in time for dinner.
9TH AND 10TH DAYS. AGRA/JAIPUR.
Tuesday morning sightseeing. Late afternoon departure for Jaipur. Wednesday morning sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
Try to get up early this morning, take a walk in the beautiful grounds of your
hotel and you may just get a glimpse of the magnificent Taj Mahal. If there is only one place to visit in your life, it should be Agra for the Taj. After breakfast your tour will take you right to the Taj Mahal, then to Agra Fort and other places of interest. This afternoon you could go back to the Taj or perhaps take an optional tour to Fatehpur Sikri. This evening you depart for Jaipur.
Dinner at your hotel. Wednesday morning you visit Maharajah’s Palace, the Albert Museum, then drive through the bustling Pink City of Jaipur. The afternoon is free to wander around on your own or take a trip to Amber, the ancient capital of state until 1728. To get to the fort, you have an exciting ride on an elephant. It’s quite safe.
11TH DAY. THURSDAY: JAIPUR/DELHI.
Morning free. Afternoon transfer to the airport for your flight to Delhi. Dinner on arrival.
14