12TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: MANILA/BANGKOK.
Wednesday morning free. Afternoon flight to Bangkok. Transfer to your hotel.
13TH AND 14TH DAYS. BANGKOK.
Thursday morning sightseeing. Friday morning tour of the klongs. Remainder of time at leisure.
Thursday morning you’ll see three of Bangkok’s most famous temples—Wat Trimitr, with its solid gold Buddha; Wat Benchamabopit, known as the Marble Temple; and Wat Po, with its magnificent reclining Buddha.
arranged for you. A good beginning to your stay here. Tuesday morning you’ll visit Malacanang Palace, Santo Tomas, Intramuros, the Spanish walled city, and other interesting sights. You’ll be intrigued by this cosmopolitan city on the Island of Luzon, one of 7,000 islands in the Philippines. Everywhere you go, you’ll see and hear “Mabuhay,” which means welcome—and they mean it. The remainder of your stay is at leisure. You can take an optional tour to Lake Tagatay or Pagsanjan Falls. Both are worth a visit.
10TH AND 11TH DAYS.
HONG KONG/MANILA.
Monday, transfer to the airport for your flight to Manila. Fiesta Filipina dinner and show this evening. Tuesday morning, city sightseeing. Remainder of time at leisure.
Monday evening a Fiesta Filipina dinner with cultural show has been
On Friday morning bright and early a visit to the klongs and the floating market. Water taxis glide by as farmers hawk their produce, paddling their way from one klong to another. A stop will be made at the lovely Wat Arun Temple of the Dawn, whose five towers rest on a series of terraces supported by statues of demons and angels.
The remainder of the time is free to enjoy a rice barge cruise, see Thai dancing or perhaps have dinner at the incredible Seafood Restaurant where you can practically catch your own fish, from enormous lobsters to the delectable crayfish.
15TH DAY. SATURDAY: BANGKOK/KUALA LUMPUR. Afternoon flight to Kuala Lumpur. Assistance and transfer on arrival. Evening free.
Fly this afternoon to Kuala Lumpur, capital of Malaysia. You will have great fun exploring your hotel, one of the newest in Kuala Lumpur. It has plenty of restaurants to choose from, tiny shops to browse in and a luxurious cocktail lounge in the lobby where you can enjoy a cool drink.
Saturday morning sightseeing of Kowloon and New Territories. Afternoon and all day Sunday free.
Saturday morning’s tour drives you out as far as the border of the People’s Republic of China. En route you will pass through the New Territories settlement areas, visit an ancient walled village and see the farmlands of the ancient Hakkas. You’re on your own this afternoon.
Sunday you are free to explore the shops (they are open). Take the Star Ferry across the harbor or even take a trip to nearby Macau. You can arrange a tour of Hong Kong Island with lunch at Repulse Bay, or just plan where to go for dinner.
8TH AND 9TH DAYS. HONG KONG.
20