12TH DAY. THURSDAY: SINGAPORE/BANGKOK. Afternoon flight to Bangkok. Transfer on arrival to your hotel.
Bangkok, Thailand’s capital, is a sprawling, commercial city whose office buildings, colleges, hotels, shops and theatres are interspersed with some of the most exquisitely beautiful Oriental architecture to be seen in the East. Its traffic-clogged streets seem dismally dull when compared to the color and life of its intricate waterways, the klongs.
13TH AND 14TH DAYS. BANGKOK.
Friday free. Thai dinner and dances in the evening. Saturday morning sightseeing followed by lunch at the Oriental Hotel.
Friday has been left free for you to explore on your own, perhaps go to the Rose Garden? This evening watch a performance of Thai dancing while enjoying dinner. Saturday morning’s tour takes you to the Royal Palace area; visit Wat Phra Keo, the home of the Emerald Buddha. This tour is followed by lunch at the Oriental Hotel.
15TH THROUGH 17TH DAYS. BANGKOK/MANILA.
Sunday morning fly to Manila. Monday morning sightseeing. Tuesday evening Fiesta Filipina dinner and show.
You’ll be intrigued by this cosmopolitan city on the Island of Luzon, one of 7,000 islands in the Philippines. Everywhere you go, you’ll see and hear “Mabuhay,” which means welcome—and they mean it.
On your arrival you’ll be met and transferred to your hotel, which has one
of the most beautiful gardens in the Philippines. Monday morning you’ll visit Malacanang Palace, Santo Tomas, Intramuros, the Spanish walled city, and other interesting sights. Tuesday, we suggest you take an optional tour to Lake Tagatay or Pagsanjan Falls. Be back in time for your Fiesta Filipina dinner.
18TH AND 19TH DAYS. MANILA/HONG KONG.
Wednesday fly to Hong Kong. Transfer to your hotel. Remainder of time at leisure.
You have Wednesday evening and all day Thursday to have the final fitting for your clothes, pick up those last minute gifts for birthdays, Christmas or “just in case.” Perhaps treat yourself to a gourmet dinner or take the ferry across to Kowloon one more time.
20TH DAY. FRIDAY:
HONG KONG/USA.
Transfer to the airport to board your flight home. You’ll recross the International Date Line, regain your lost day and arrive home on Friday.
Chinese Junk in Hong Kong harbor