WHAT ARE THE AIRLINES DOING TO ABATE NOISE?
One of the most successful ways to combat noise is to develop quieter aircraft engines and that goal is constantly before both the airlines and the manufacturers.
Another is to have aircraft make approaches and departures over water wherever possible. Steeper angle landing and takeoff is in operation at most airports now and its effect in noise reduction is quite appreciable. As a result the introduction of STOL (short takeoff and landing) aircraft for short-haul inter-city flights is planned.
Quieter aircraft taxiing and maintenance, the sound-proofing of maintenance areas, the arranging of maintenance hours to cause the least irritation and the keeping of engine run-ups to a minimum are all noise reduction measures in practice at many airports throughout the world.
The world transport industry has long held the view that areas within the vicinity of airports should be zoned for compatible use. With very few exceptions, this recommendation has been ignored and residential development continues apace. The airline industry believes that if all levels of government continue to allow this growth, they should bear full responsibility and not look to the airlines for contributions when the various governments are sued by householders dwelling within airport environs.
The world's airlines have also recommended that psychological studies of noise be carried out to ascertain the particular noise factors that cause the most irritation and, when these have been determined, every attempt be made to eliminate them.
The airlines have also called for international standards and criteria to be set up with respect to aircraft pollution and noise. We should remember however, as we await still further abatement technology, that the sound of aircraft is also the sound of money.^Your airport and the airlines operating into it are imperative to the economy of your area. Let us cite an example of this. In recent years there was agitation to stop jet aircraft flying into Midway airport in Chicago. The agitation was successful and jets ceased to use the airport; within a short time the economy of the area surrounding Midway became depressed, so depressed in fact, that another pressure group rose up and demanded that jet transport aircraft be routed into Midway and this group too, has succeeded. Jets are once more flying into the airport but the pressure continues—for an increase in the number of flights because it has been realized that they will revitalize the local economy.
DO CURFEWS HELP?
Curfews, considered on a local basis, appear to be a politically appealing way of reacting to complaints about noise. However, considered on a worldwide basis, curfews will place insurmountable restrictions on the airlines and cause inefficient service and uneconomical operation. Fortunately, at the moment, curfews are not imposed universally but there are sufficient even now to cause concern. If this trend continues the general public will be among the first to suffer. Almost everyone is affected either directly or indirectly by airline operation — the quick movement of people and things has become a vital aspect of both our lives and our economy. Same day passenger arrivals across the world and next day mail and parcel post, available in so many centres at present, would no longer be available. The fast transportation of foodstuffs and other commodities would be curtailed and so would many other facilities; for instance, it has been estimated that the banks of New York would lose over $35 million in interest annually, if overnight air express was denied them, just one example of the considerable economic stress that could come to an area where a curfew was enforced. Another often overlooked aspect of curfews is that a shutdown airport requires only a skeleton staff to attend to essential services. This results in a layoff, at the average airport, of almost one-third of the people currently employed there.
Curfews would create unmanageable congestion above and on the airport —noise too, immediately prior to and just after curfew hours. The versatile quick-change aircraft could not be used at night. These aircraft, when not required for passenger transportation, can be quickly and easily converted to freight carriers and are an indispensable part of airline efficiency.
This diagram concerns an eastbound flight from London to Tokyo and is based upon a current timetable in use by Japan Air Lines. The time zone at each stopping place is in local time (displaced by an amount equal to the flight time plus the change in time zone).
An unrestricted flight (the present timetable) is represented by dotted line # 1. If universal curfews are introduced, an aircraft leaving at the present departure time would have to lay over in Cairo and again in Delhi — losing a total of 25 hours Line # 1A). The layover in Cairo could be reduced by starting the flight five hours later but even so, layovers in Cairo and Delhi would still be required and the total lost time would then be 20 hours (Line #3). The best timetable would be to depart at 0800 hours. This would involve layovers at Teheran and Hong Kong — losing 16 hours (Line #2). This minimum
loss of 16 hours still adds almost 65 per cent to the present elapsed time of 26 hours and 40 minutes from London to Tokyo.
								
								
								
								
							|	
								
								
								
			r i	I				j-
			i:					
					v		ll^fllUT	nmim	
			i	pi 1				
								
-								
		r							
	J			E				—
								
		1		llkkkitftl				
								
								
	hhHui							
		■"‘T h						
		: 1						
	■■■■■»fa				!	1						
					:			
								
								
					1			
								
		' .						
		I	'					
								
								
								^	
								
								
								
(J) 25 HOURS LOST WITH CURFEWS ® 16 HOURS LOST 20 HOURS LOST
Curfews are a costly, ineffective and impracticable solution. Great strides have already been made in more practical ways for protecting the environment by the airline industry and it has cost a great deal of money. Curfew delays that are in operation at certain airports, increased operating costs, noise abatement flight procedures, engine development, adaptations and retrofits will have cost the airlines of the world about $3,000 million by the end of 1975. With as vast an expenditure as that, it cannot be said that the airline industry is not doing everything in its power to help protect the environment from pollution caused by the industry's day-to-day operation.
The United Nations declared in July 1971 that man is entitled to a good and healthy environment.The airlines of the world back this declaration whole-heartedly.
FRONT COVER
(Top picture): Wide-bodied jet at takeoff with a moke-free engines.
(Bottom picture): Airport muffler installation — allows noiseless full-power testing.
tk
PRINTED IN CANADA
&
..
WHAT THE AIRLINES OF THE WORLD ARE DOING ABOUT THE
INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION
1155 MANSFIELD STREET,	P.O. BOX 315, 1215 GENEVA 15
MONTREAL 113, QUE., CANADA	AIRPORT, SWITZERLAND