Our age of technology is spreading and its impact is being felt in even the most remote areas of the world. This vast growth is a major cause of the substantial build-up of noise and air pollution of the environment.
The airline industry, playing its ever-increasing role in the everyday life of the planet, has long been aware of its responsibility to the community and, where air pollution and noise are concerned, that responsibility is fully realized. It was because of this deep concern that the International Air Transport Association, on behalf of the world air transport industry, formed an Environment Protection Advisory Committee. This group is made up of senior personnel drawn from member airlines and the International Air Transport Association Secretariat; together they represent the Technical, Financial, Legal and Public Relations fields.
WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THE AIRLINES' JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACTIVITIES?
The main task involves monitoring environmental pollution as it applies to airline operation and to coordinate International Air Transport Association activity in this direction. Since its formation the status of environmental concern has been reviewed and the Committee has recommended certain programs of work to be followed by existing International Air Transport Association groups. It is developing a better system for the exchange of information on what is currently being done and what will be required to achieve the goals. Also where information exchange is concerned the Committee is adamant that the general public be kept aware of what is being done and what will be done to fight environment deterioration. All aviation pollution problems are carefully analysed and courses of action set in motion.
WHAT ARE THE PRINCIPAL ENVIRONMENT PROBLEMS THAT FACE THE WORLD AIR TRANSPORT INDUSTRY?
Two main problem categories confront the airline industry and are the concern of the Environment Protection Advisory Committee; they are:
#	Gases and smoke, which are technically known as Visible and Invisible Emissions
#	Noise
Let us look at both these categories in greater detail.
GASES AND SMOKE
Aircraft are only a minor source of air pollution. In the United States, for example, less than one per cent of all forms of air pollution emanates from the air transport industry. This was not always the case. Contrary to popular belief, when propeller engines gave way to the jet in 1958, aircraft emissions into the atmosphere did not increase; they were, in fact, reduced by 50 per cent. Today's turbojet engine is so efficient (99 per cent) that it is precisely the design that is being recommended for automobiles in order to reduce air pollution by road surface traffic. Aircraft of the airline industry are the cleanest of all powered transport in the world today.
Jet fuel contains no lead and virtually no sulphur - two of the main causes of air pollution in automobile gasolines. Smoke, which is made up of unburned carbon particles, has also been greatly reduced. Smoke reduction is a design requirement for aircraft engines and the results are noticeable in the almost smoke-free exhaust of the new generation of large transport aircraft. The following figures, in terms of pollution by weight per engine for each landing and takeoff combined, illustrates how the airline industry is succeeding in smoke abatement.
Propeller engines-1957 .........................112 lbs
Early turbojets - 1958 .........................55 lbs
Early fan-jets - 1961 ..........................49 lbs
New technology engines - 1970...................34 lbs
Special engine adaptations known as retrofit burner cans have been installed on some older aircraft to reduce smoke emission at a cost of approximately $7,000 per engine. These conversions however are not possible throughout the world's airline fleets because adapters have not yet been perfected for certain types of engines. However, new technology engines plus the retrofits will ensure that 64 per cent of the world's transport aircraft will be almost completely smokeless by 1973.
Incidently, the white trails so often seen behind high-flying aircraft are not smoke trails. They are condensation trails — crystallized water vapor caused by the meeting of heat and cold — like breath on the air of a wintry morning.
Airports are accused regularly of being centres of air pollution; yet the facts do not bear this out. Frequent on-the-spot checks at principal airports and downtown areas of their parent cities have shown that more than 50 per cent of
the pollution is on the "landside''— that is, the pollution is caused, not by aircraft as originally suspected, but, by other forms of traffic associated with airports: private cars, buses, trucks and on-the-tarmac maintenance vehicles. Pollution on the "airside" has been found to be a great deal less than it would be had the area been used for residential or industrial development.
RELATIVE CARBON MONOXIDE LEVELS-1970
| l DOWNTOWN ■■ AIRPORT
RELATIVE CARBON MONOXIDE LEVELS LOS ANGELES - 1970
(LANDSIDE) (AIRSIDE)
It should be remembered that as new regulations governing air pollution by automobiles come into effect, the level of pollution in cities and on the landside of airports will drop markedly. At that time, aircraft contribution to pollution will be relatively more important. Both the manufacturers and the world's airlines are fully aware of this and realize that they must continue to improve jet engine combustion and airline operating techniques.
NOISE
Noise is a major environmental problem facing airlines today and it is a difficult one to solve. The human ear has a very wide range of hearing - from the threshold of hearing to the threshold of pain. Technically that's nearly 10 million to one in terms of sound pressure level. Because of this sound engineers express noise by a logarithmic scale of decibels. This makes the number convenient to handle but it does conceal the fact that a reduction of 10 decibels requires a sound power reduction of 90 per cent. A 20 decibel reduction requires a 99 percent reduction in acoustic power. Here are a few familiar items from your everyday life listed in terms of decibels. They make an interesting comparison study.
A vacuum cleaner................................50
Bus or truck ...................................90
Jet near runway ...............................106
Snowmobile ....................................108
Rockband.......................................110
An international agreement has been reached on the adoption of a measurement scale for defining the noise of aircraft. It is based on the decibel system and is called the EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Decibel) and is used for the noise certification of aircraft.
Just as governments set standards in automobile manufacture so they set standards for aircraft with relation to noise. These standards are in a direct ratio to the development of noise abatement technology. The wide range of the human ear makes it almost impossible for a human being to notice a small change in noise level. Very large changes are necessary to make the public feel that progress is being made. The technology required to bring about a change of this magnitude is extremely difficult to achieve. Nevertheless, the vast amount of money spent over the past 15 years is beginning to show results. The jet engine has been growing steadily quieter although, at the same time, it has been developing more power. For example, the new big jets are a great deal quieter than their predecessors and their reduction in sound is sure to be apparent to you.
COMPARATIVE NOISE LEVELS
WHAT CAUSES NOISE?
The principal sources of aircraft noise fall into the following categories:
Takeoffs and landings Inter-city travel Airport movement at airport Aircraft maintenance