PRINTED IN U.S.A.

*

“ w*-	SB	*
* W'	m V	if 1
	1 In	f 1
#t-—	— ‘~	
	. % ■% ■	1
With Air Travel by
Pas Americas World Airways
(~Sffe System of t/ie^Sfyiny (f/ippers
For Reservations Consult
t^ome, SI lie ¿Sterna / City
This year you can easily join those thousands who are making the Holy Year Pilgrimage to Rome. When you go by air even two weeks is ample time to visit several major European cities and shrines in addition to sharing the blessings and indulgences granted to those making the Pilgrimage. In Rome you'll pray daily for the Holy Year intentions at four great basilicas ... St. Peter's, entering through the Porta Santa opened by His Holiness on Christmas Eve ... St. Paul's Outside the Wall ... St. John Lateran, with its altar enclosing the table used at the Last Supper... St. Mary Major, honoring the Blessed Virgin, one of the most beautiful churches in Rome. You'll attend impressive Vatican ceremonies . . . beatifications and canonizations . . . attend Mass in the ancient Catacombs as did the early Christians . . . visit the Colosseum . . . say the Stations of the Cross along the Appian Way.
A thousand wonders of the Eternal City will remain with you forever as unforgettable memories. No other trip could ever give you such lasting satisfaction ... could return you home so refreshed in mind and spirit.
Do £u rope by Clipper
As you fly swiftly across the Atlantic to Europe, you'll feel completely at home aboard your four-engined Clipper.
From the first moment you settle back in the soft luxury of your seat, your personal well-being is our main concern. Being hungry on a Pan American flight is only a temporary, and delightful, sensation for at dinner times delicious meals are served to you gratis. Aboard the Clippers, it almost goes without saying the service you receive is something you'll long remember with pleasure. And going by Pan American you can see much more of the continent, entering Europe through London, leaving for home via Lisbon.
Actually, you have chosen the airline that pioneered long-range, inter-continental flying . . . Pan American Clippers were the first to cross the Pacific in 1936 . . . first across the North Atlantic in 1939. Here is the world's most experienced airline.
3ti
nerarle6 a
nJ P,
ri ce S
shown in this booklet are but typical of many now being offered by leading tour operators. For specific arrangements, you'll want to call on your own Travel Agent or a Pan American office. Pan American does not operate tours — although the transportation they provide is an integral part of your air cruise.