ree
in
^swo vi/eenò in l>ì
uropt
AIR CRUISE No. 207
AIR CRUISE No. 301
LISBON ’ FATIMA ' ROME ‘ NICE • LOURDES • PARIS LONDON
1st day NEW YORK - Leave by PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS Clipper for overnight flight to Europe.
2nd day LISBON —Arrive by air. Visit the beautiful capital of Portugal and located on the Tagus River estuary, Jeronimoz Monastery 3rd day and Belem Palace, the Royal Coaches Museum, focal Black Horse Square, and the picturesque Alfama quarter.
4th day FATIMA — By motor to the important Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima, visiting en route the famous Monasteries of Alcobaça and Batalha, and the picturesque towns of Tomar and Santarem.
5th day ROME — By air. Your stay in Rome will be first devoted to to	the earning of your Jubilee plenary indulgence by praying
9th day at the four Major Basilicas. A comprehensive sightseeing program of the “Eternal City” will include St. Peter's and the Vatican, the Seven Hills, the Colosseum, and Catacombs. By connecting airline to Southern France.
10th day NICE — Spectacular motor drive over the Grande Corniche to Monte Carlo and Monaco.
11th day Leave by rail along the French Riviera to the foot of the Pyrenees.
12th day LOURDES — At this great pilgrimage Shrine famous for its innumerable miraculous cures performed at the Grotto of the Blessed Virgin next to the Way of the Cross and the Basilica.
13th day To Paris by rail.
14th day PARIS — Two half day visits of both banks of the great capi-to	tal of France on the Seine, including Notre Dame Cathedral,
17th day the Sainte Chapelle, Sacré Coeur Church, the Louvre Museum, the Invalides, the Arch of Triumph, and other renowned sights. Opportunity for an optional side trip to the Shrine of Sainte Therese at Lisieux.
18th day LONDON — By-air. Visit the city. Cathedral of Westminster, to	Tower of London, St. Paul's, the war damaged areas, and
20th day other famous landmarks. Leave by PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS Clipper for homeward flight.
21st day NEW YORK - Due to arrive.
Inclusive Prices — Each of two persons traveling together —
LONDON * PARIS ' ROME • THE RIVIERA
1st day NEW YORK - Leave by PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS Clipper for overnight flight to Europe.
2nd day LONDON - Vi sit the city. Cathedral of Westminster, Tower to	of London, St. Paul's, the war damaged areas, and other
4th day famous landmarks.
5th day PARIS — By connecting airline. Two half day visits of both to	banks of the great capital of France on the Seine, including
7th day Notre Dame Cathedral, the Sainte Chapelle, Sacre Coeur Church, the Louvre Museum, the Invalides, the Arch of Triumph, and other renowned sights.
8th day ROME — Your stay in Rome will be first devoted to the earn-to	ing of your Jubilee plenary indulgence by praying at the
12th day four Major Basilicas. A comprehensive sightseeing program of the “Eternal City" will include St. Peter's and the Vatican, the Seven Hills, the Colosseum and Catacombs. By connecting airline to Southern France.
13th day NICE — Spectacular motor drive over the Grande Corniche to Monte Carlo and Monaco.
14th day Leave by PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS Clipper for homeward flight via Barcelona, Spain, and Lisbon, Portugal.
15th day NEW YORK — Due to arrive.
Inclusive Prices — Each of two persons travelling together — $836 for departure from April 1 to June 15 $836 for departure from Sept. 1 to Nov. 30 $921 for departure from July 1 to Aug. 31 $749 for departure from Dec. 1 to Mar. 31
In addition to air transportation indicated, the rates include room with twin-beds, and private bath where available, at comfortable hotels; continental breakfast at hotels (in Rome, table d'hote dinner will also be included); sightseeing by motor coach with English-speaking guide; admissions to museums and monuments; transfers from airline city terminals to hotels and vice versa; gratuities and taxes.
16 cJJayS in Europe
HOLY NAME SOCIETY PILGRIMAGE No. 1
LONDON • PARIS • LISIEUX • LOURDES * ROME' NICE
DAILY DEPARTURES
1st day Leave New York by Pan American Clipper.
2nd day Arrive LONDON — the great metropolis of the British Empire. Transfer to hotel for overnight stay.
3rd day After breakfast leave for PARIS—the glamorous capital of the French Republic.
4th day PARIS —Morning, at leisure; afternoon, city sightseeing.
Cathedrals of Notre Dame, Sacre Coeur, Invalides Chapel, University District and the Pantheon, etc.
5th day VERSAILLES — The amazing palace of Louis XIV, also Mal-maison Palace.
6th day LISIEUX — Visit Carmel, the Shrine of the youthful St. Theresa.
7th day After breakfast leave Paris for LOURDES.
8th day LOURDES — The miraculous grotto in a gorgeous setting of high Pyrenees where nearly a century ago the Blessed Virgin appeared to Bernadette Soubirous.
9th day Morning, at leisure; afternoon, leave Lourdes for Rome.
10th day ROME — The goal of our Pilgrimage — fulfillment of a lifetime dream. We shall visit the four major Basilicas and enter St. Peter's through the Holy Door opened by His Holiness at the inauguration of Holy Year.
11th day In ROME — The Vatican Museum, Sistine Chapel, the Catacombs, Castel Gondolfo.
12th day At leisure in Rome.
13th day Morning, at leisure; Santa Sabina, San Clemente, the Angeli-cum, Colosseum, etc.
14th day After breakfast leave Rome for NICE on the French Riviera.
Rest and relax overnight at this famous Mediterranean resort spot.
15th day Leave Nice for New York by PAN AMERICAN CLIPPER.
16th day Arrive in New York.
$941 for departure from April 1 to June 8 $941 for departure from Sept. 1 to Nov. 30 $1027 for departure from June 9 to Aug. 31 $855 for departure from Dec. 1 to Mar. 31
In addition to air and ground transportation indicated, the rates include room with twin-beds, and private bath where available, at comfortable hotels; continental breakfast at hotels (in Rome, table d’hote dinner will also be included); sightseeing by motor coach with English-speaking guide; admissions to museums and monuments; transfers from airline city terminals to hotels and vice versa; gratuities and hotel taxes.
Not included in the tours are: Cost of passport, laundry, wines and mineral waters, and other personal items, meals except as indicated herein, and local Portuguese taxes.
All arrangements and prices shown are for information purposes only and are subject to change without notice.
Clipper, Trademark Pan American World Airways, Inc.
PILGRIMAGE RATES
$995 for departure from June 22 to Aug. 31 $909.60 for departure from Sept. 1 to Nov. 30 $882.20 for departure from Dec. 1 to Mar. 31
Pilgrimage includes transatlantic transportation via Pan American; second class rail travel in Europe; double room with private bath in first class hotels except in Rome where most comfortable accommodations will be provided; gratuities and taxes on travel and hotel accommodations; three table d'hote meals per day except in Paris where breakfast only is included; sightseeing by motor coach as specified with English speaking guide; transfer between airports, railway terminals and hotels.
Pan American World Airways has been designated as the official air carrier for the Pilgrimages sponsored by the National Headquarters of the Holy Name Society.
Copyright 1950, Pan American World Airways, Inc.