e<|©t 1 " '.. 1 ... " M,'|g£ggg>H	-M-......... Kgy
Travel the Comfortable Way
How many times have you stood on the deck of a steamer, tossing in a rough sea and enviously watched the gulls wheeling and dipping ’round the vessel. What swiftness and lightness, what ease, while you suffered the agonies of the endless rolling and pitching of a spiteful sea. How you longed for the smooth, quick flight of the gull.
These choppy crossings are as true of the Straits of Florida through which the Gulf Stream flows, as of the English Channel, which is famous for its roughness. For a steady breeze is at cross purposes with the strong current and those on the surface where wind and water meet, suffer aplenty. But now man has mastered the principles of flight and may enjoy the comfort, speed and safety of aerial transportation.
As contractors for U. S. and Cuban Mail, Pan American Airways, Inc., has maintained, since October 28, 1927, a daily service between Key West and Havana, connecting with the Havana Special, both South and Northbound. On January 16, 1928, regular passenger service was inaugurated in accordance with the schedule shown below. The great saving in time means the best part of two days gained in the round trip to Cuba. In addition, a comfortable journey, with minimum delay for customs formalities, is assured. Pan American Airways, Inc., uses only the most modern and safest equipment available and employs conservative, skillful pilots and expert mechanics. The U. S. Department of Commerce has licensed all the pilots, as well as the large eight passenger Tri-motor Fokkers which are in use between Key West and Havana.
Safety and service are the guiding principles of all flights over Pan American Airways.
Reservations
Reservations may be made at any one of the following Pan American Airways, Inc., offices, by telephone or telegram:
100 East 42nd Street, New York City
Telephone Caledonia 2363
La Concha Hotel Building, Key West, Fla.
Telephone 377
Sevilla-Biltmore Arcade, Havana, Cuba
Telephone A-2222
The Company cannot guarantee to hold reservations made by wire, unless full fare or deposit of one-third of full fare is immediately sent. Reservations on which deposit has been made will not be held after 24 hours before intended flight, unless full payment is completed.
Schedule—Daily
Leave Key West ----- 8.00 A.M.
Arrive Havana -----	9.15	A.M.
Leave Havana ------	3.45	P.M.
Arrive Key West - -	- -	5.15	P.M.
One way Fare: $50.00—includes passenger and 30 pounds of baggage, also transportation to and from airports. Excess baggage will be carried at 25 cents a pound, when the capacity of the plane permits.
; -	I&&&I	,	, -...«3*