COLORFUL EUROPE GLAMOROUS SHOWS AND FAMOUS THEATRICAL PERSONALITIES
AWAIT YOU
Here is a great opportunity for you to see the cities and attractions of Europe and, yet, while so doing, to be more than an ordinary tourist.
Through special arrangements in the world of the theatre, we are able to make your trip a memorable one at each stopover by not only taking you to very exceptional shows but, also, taking you behind the scenes to meet actors and personalities connected with these shows. The itinerary in this folder tells you all about it. Those who know are enthusiastic about this “Trip of the Year,” from drama critics to columnists, embodying as it does the elements of gayety and dramatic adventure.
As to the exceptionally advantageous price of this trip to Europe, we refer you to the back page where you will see what is included such as hotels, special meals, all transportation, receptions, seats at shows, incidentals such as tipping and taxes.
GENERAL INFORMATION
You will need a passport, but no visas, and the customary vaccination certificate required upon your return to the United States. Your Travel Agent will give you fuller details regarding how much can be taken with ease within the baggage allowance of 44 lbs. including evening gown or dinner jacket for some of the special parties.
As for the immediate cost for the trip, you need not postpone it, but just use the WORLD-WIDE PLAN — GO NOW — PAY LATER, which is the most popular credit arrangement for international travel. You can pay as little as 10% down and take up to 20 months to pay the balance in convenient monthly amounts . . . with no collateral, no complicated financing arrangements.
TRULY THE TRIP OF THE YEAR IS THIS SHOW PLANE TO EUROPE
YOUR TOUR PRICE INCLUDES
I
i
I
J
*
s
Air Travel by Pan American World Airways Rainbow Tourist service, and connecting services of British European Airways and Air France for certain intra-European flights.
Hotels similar to those shown in itinerary basis twin-bedded rooms with bath or shower. Single rooms available at an additional cost of $75.00.
Meals as indicated for special events.
Transfer of passenger and hand baggage from airports to hotels and vice versa.
Seats and tickets for events as shown in the itinerary.
Taxes as imposed by local administrations and governmental authorities.
Gratuities to hotel attendants and to transportation terminal porters.
The rates do not include: Meals at hotels other than those specified for special events; cost of passport and visa: wines, mineral waters, laundry, local airport taxes; and all items of a purely personal nature; optional sightseeing.
Responsibility — All these tours will be carried out under the business management of Exprinter Travel Service, Inc., with offices and representatives throughout Europe. All arrangements for trans-Atlantic transportation are made by Pan American World Airways System, which company is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft.
The management cannot be held responsible for personal injury or loss of passengers’ baggage, nor for any delay, accident, or loss of personal property, or for additional expenses, due to war, storm, floods, disruption of advertised schedules, or other causes beyond their control, and any such expenses would have to be borne by the passenger.
The management also reserves the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or enroute, or to withdraw any tour.
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
No. IT-196-3/57
Printed by Exprinter Travel Service, Inc. in U.S.A.