TOURS INSIDE
~tfie eaSTj Clipper Wmf -to J7LWW
so near from
Enjoy a luxurious trip enroute . . . spend your travel-time saved, in Tokyo. Japan is only a few hours away from most Pacific points . . . that’s because Tokyo is a main stop on Pan American’s vast Round-the-World routes.
Schedules are fast, frequent and dependable. Fly straight through or visit other exciting lands along the way. Aboard a luxurious 4-engine Clipper you’ll relax in the lap of real travel pleasure. The ever friendly hospitality-—the wonderful meals so invitingly served—the mile-erasing comfort of big, deep-cushioned lounge chairs.
All this is yours when you fly Pan American Clipper —the world’s most experienced airline, the airline that pioneered service across the Pacific.
For fares, schedules, trip and tour planning help see your travel agent or nearest Pan American office.
Pan American World Airways
(^lhe cSysfem of tie(^F/ijiny Clippers
Clipper, Trade Mark, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Fly by Clipper to Japan... it takes less time than you may think ... Pan American Clippers bring the wonders of Japan to anyone who has a week or more set aside for a trip.
A mystic blend of the very old and the very new. That’s Japan ... land of magnificent arts, natural beauties, color and charm. Visit strangely beautiful shrines and moated castles resplendent in their storybook settings. You’ll enjoy the gaiety of colorful festivals ... the formality of the classic theater...sights beheld nowhere else in the world. Yes, you’ll be charmed as never before by the quaint customs of the Japanese people and the perfection of their arts.
All this travel magic awaits when you step from your Flying Clipper at fabulous Tokyo where these exciting tours begin.
Tori¡ at ancient Itsukushima Shrine on Miyajima Island
Tours are carefree . . . easy to arrange—Everything is handled for you. And one price covers all your necessary expenses in Japan—even tips. Just take your pick from the all-expense itineraries on the next pages. Each sight-seeing tour is so carefully chosen — even the short 3-day tour is a memorable experience.
More time for individual sightseeing... if you prefer—
Extended stay of tourists either before or after the conducted tour is allowed for a total stay in Japan up to 180 days. This gives you time to enjoy other sight-seeing trips and short excursions. Or you can explore on your own...in great cities like Tokyo and Osaka, in glamorous Kyoto and magnificent resorts like Nikko and Hakone.
the Flying Clipper way