ense \<z^paniTo
14-DAY TOUR... $413
JTB itinerary No. 29
KYOTO
YAM,
• NIKKO
'TOKYO
'.goyaNT'^'kamakura
NUMAZU
st day—You arrive in Tokyo, register in modern hotel. Morning free. Afternoon sightseeing by auto will introduce you to the city's countless delights—many-storied pagodas, breathtaking gardens, the Ginza—lively shopping center, other wonders.
2 nd day—Morning train to Kamakura, seaside resort famed for its great bronze Buddha. Afternoon drive to Hakone National Park where placid lake reflects double view of Mt. Fuji.
rd day—Morning auto to Numazu where you board limited express train to Kyoto, the ancient capital — lunch on train.
th day—All-day sightseeing tour of Kyoto, center of Japanese fine arts. You visit the old Imperial Palace, Gold Pavilion, Nijo Castle, Heian Shrine, Hall of a Myriad Buddhist Images, Nishijin silk weaving factory and shops rich in damascene, lacquer, chinaware and kimonos.
jthday—In Kyoto. Morning excursion by auto to Nara, park city of tamed deer, temples and Buddhas. Afternoon at your disposal.
6th day—In Kyoto. Morning excursion to Hozu Rapids by flat-bottomed boat. Afternoon free to browse the flower-bedecked countryside.
7th day—Morning train to Kobe—bustling shipping center. Afternoon auto excursion to Takarazuka and a visit to the Girls' Opera. Return to Kobe in time for dinner.
th day—In Kobe. Morning auto sightseeing tour of this city, one of the most hilly cities in the world. Afternoon free to browse on your own—visit nearby points of scenic, historic and athletic interest.
9 th day—Morning train to the great industrial center of Osaka. Afternoon train to Yamada, then by auto for a visit to Kashikojima.
10 th day—Morning excursion by auto to fabulous Pearl Island where the whole process of pearl culture and pearl necklace manufacture is revealed. Afternoon train to Nagoya, center of porcelain and cloisonne industries.
th day—Morning auto sightseeing tour of Nagoya, third largest city. See Noritake chinaware and cloisonne factories. Afternoon express train to Tokyo—dinner on train. Arrive in evening.
¿1th day—Board morning train for Nikko—spectacular combination of mountain scenery, dazzling Oriental splendor and lofty cryptomeria trees. Afternoon visit to Toshogu Shrine on foot.
13	th day—Morning excursion by auto and cable car to lovely Lake Chuzenji. Afternoon train back to Tokyo.
14	th day—In Tokyo. Free to once more browse this colorful city and fill in your memory of this unforgettable tour.
7-DAY TOUR... $228
JTB itinerary No. 28
KYOTO
HAKONE
.•NIKKO
1 NARA
st day—Afternoon sightseeing auto tour visiting Imperial Palace Plaza, Diet Building, Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and Memorial Picture Gallery, the Rikugien Garden.
nd day—Morning train to Odawara, then on to mountainous Hakone by auto. After lunch continue via Ten Province Pass to quaint Atami on the seashore. Night express train to Kyoto in sleeper.
rd day—Arrive Kyoto in morning. All day sightseeing tour of this venerable city, the depository of Japan's ancient art treasures and cultural heritage.
: th day—Morning auto excursion to beautiful Nara. Lunch in Kyoto. Afternoon to browse and shop.
5 th day—Morning express train to Tokyo. Enjoy a breathtaking view of Mt. Fuji en route before your evening arrival — lunch on train.
6th day—Board morning train for Nikko about which the Japanese say, “Don’t say 'Kekko' (sublime) until you have seen Nikko.” Afternoon visit to Toshogu Shrine and nearby points of cultural interest.
' th day—Morning excursion by auto and cable car to beautiful Kegon Waterfall and Lake Chuzenji. Afternoon train back to Tokyo.
JAPAN TOURS-REV. 1, 1952
5-DAY TOUR...$175
JTB itinerary No. 27
A
KYOTO
A
»INARA
(L
.NIKKO
st day—Same visit in Tokyo as 7-day tour (1st day).
nd day—Morning train to historic Nikko and afternoon visit to Toshogu Shrine on foot. Return to Tokyo by train, arriving in evening. Night express train back to Kyoto in a comfortable sleeper.
rd day—Arrive Kyoto in the morning. All day auto sightseeing excursion takes you to Honganji Temple, old Imperial Palace, silk weaving factory, Heian Shrine and garden, Hall of Thousand Buddhas; lacquer, cloisonne, porcelain factories.
4th day—Morning excursion to Nara by auto visiting Deer Park, Kasuga Shrine, Big Bell and Daibutsu. Lunch in Kyoto. Afternoon free to browse on your own.
th day—Morning limited express train to Tokyo offering a magnificent view of Mt. Fuji en route—arrive back in Tokyo in the evening.
3-DAY TOUR... $68
JTB itinerary No. 26
• NIKKO #TOKYO
st day—Same sightseeing-packed day in Tokyo as 7 and 5 day tours (1st day).
nd day—Board morning train for Nikko, the “Oriental Versailles” famous for historic shrines, temples and pagodas of feudal days. Visit Toshogu Shrine and other scenic wonders in the afternoon.
3 rd day—Morning excursion by auto and cable car to famous Lake Chuzenji and Kegon Waterfall, high in the Nikko mountains. Afternoon train back to Tokyo.
St

/SMjm
„ _	’ "A
AatjflWa«gsflA
■ ■	- '—^À
1*1

Stately Osaka Castle
Great Bronze Buddha at Kamakura
Additional conducted all-expense tours, as well as independent all-expense tours, are also available. Ask your Travel Agent or Pan American Office for full particulars and complete trip-planning help.
Tour price covers all these expenses —first-class rail transportation with sleeper; hotel rooms and meals, motor-coach sightseeing trips, guides, admission fees; transferring you and your hand-baggage (2 cases per person) between airports, stations, hotels; yes, even tips. Not included, of course, are flight fares and all other purely personal expenses like laundry, liquor, insurance and transportation for heavy baggage.
Arrangements? Easy...and they’re made easier by your Travel Agent or Pan American representative who will gladly help you with your reservations and other necessary details. Because of fluctuating availability, advance reservations cannot be made for a specific hotel. The official Japan Travel Bureau handles all arrangements for hotels and conveyance as agents only.
ALL TOURS INDICATED ARE CONDUCTED-Rates quoted cover cost per person in parties of two. Rates reduced for larger groups.
All information regarding services and fares contained herein is subject to alteration without notice.

Japan ... a land of classic arts

Kintai Bridge at Iwakuni near Hiroshima
Fly with the Leader... PM AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS