for the difference in cost. If five persons in the tourist section occupy ¿P	space equivalent to that occupied by four in first class, it is obvious
T "f	that each of the five can pay less individually, with the air line
|	realizing the same amount in revenue.
However, that explanation oversimplifies the situation, since there are other factors involved, as pointed out above. There is a lounge compartment for first class passengers — generally none for tourist or economy. President passengers are paying for more service, and get it—in terms of meal service, beverages, dressing rooms, and space to move around.
Operating standards, whether in flying, servicing, maintenance, assignment of crews or anything else, are identical. Obviously, they have to be the same when two classes are aboard the same aircraft. And where one class airplanes are flown — all first class or all tourist or all economy — the principle still holds. Operating standards are identical. And the same care is exercised in the operation of another type of service — all-cargo flights, which carry no passengers at all.
When it comes to paying for the ticket, there is a great difference. On this flight from Paris to Beirut, for example the first class fare is $282.80; tourist class $193.20. For our flight all around the world the cost for travelling first class all the way would be $1,958.30; for Rainbow tourist service $1,402.55; using economy class on the Transatlantic sector, the fare would be only $1,345.85.
2
The lower cost tourist and economy services make it possible for all kinds of people to fly — vacationing families, teachers, secretaries, carpenters, bookkeepers. Mention a profession or trade, and you can find a representative in the passenger lists for international air travel.
The passengers with us today include such persons.
Seated near us are two nuns. They probably are going to Rome, perhaps for a visit at the headquarters of their order.
There is a group of about fifteen persons who seem to be travelling together. A good guess is that they are teachers making a Round-the-World tour. The dark-skinned, black-haired man must be Arabian, for we’ll be in the Middle East when we finish this leg of our trip. There is a whole family, Dad, Mother and children. The two young ladies could be secretaries on vacation.
They’ll all know more about the world when they’ve finished their journeys.
THINGS TO DO
1.	From books in the library, find out more about international flight rules.
2.	By using maps and geography texts to learn about the land features, you can imagine how the countries you will fly over from Paris to Beirut will look.