\ Int. Dateline \
\
I
I	go on from midnight at the International Date Line. It’s a second
•	past midnight and a new day is starting. With the passage of an hour,
and the rotation of the earth meanwhile, it becomes a second past midnight 15 degrees to the west (at the 165° East Meridian). After two hours, midnight has moved another 15 degrees (to the 150° East Meridian). Hour by hour midnight moves around the world, after 24 hours it has reached the International Date Line again, and another day starts.
What happens to our day, then, when we arrive from Tokyo at the
Copyright I960, Pan American World Airways
2
International Date Line and cross it on our way to Honolulu? For simplicity, let’s say we arrive at 180 degrees precisely at midnight. On the side of the International Date Line from which we are approaching, midnight means the beginning of a new day. To the east of the line, it is midnight also, but this is midnight of the day which has just completed a circuit of the whole earth — it is yesterday. So we do a quick mental switch. It’s today for us now, and the day we have just left behind us becomes tomorrow.
In practice, whatever time it may be, the day changes when we pass over the International Date Line. If we are westbound today becomes tomorrow — we add one to the date and the first becomes the second. Proceeding eastbound, today becomes yesterday — instead of being the second day of the month, it is the first.
The explanation above is the basis for the time zones and the International Date Line. In usage, variations have been introduced for convenience. On a map of the Pacific, you will note that the International Date Line does not follow the 180th Meridian all the way, but instead bends eastward in mid-Pacific so that certain locations will have the same calendar day because they want it that way. Boundaries of certain time zones have been altered from the basic scheme for like reasons (see map), in some cases the differences in time from adjoining zones are arbitrarily set at more or less than an hour. We have made further modifications in many areas by using Daylight Time — setting the clocks an hour ahead of Standard Time — to get the most benefit from daylight hours.
These differences have no great importance if you stay in one place all day. But if you travel, and especially if you fly, you may have to take into account the fact that the place from which you start may have a different clock time than the place to which you are going.
THINGS TO DO
1.	Draw a circle to represent your path of flight around the world. On this circle mark your home town, New York, and each landing place along the route. Use labels or pictures to indicate each of these places. Outside of this circle draw a clock face for each place indicated. On the clocks show the time at your home town and what time it would be at each place around the world. Also indicate the date at each place. Use the time indicator on the globe or information from an encyclopedia or geography book to help you. You might prefer to use a globe or a large world map on which to indicate your path of flight.
2.	Using a globe, try counting time changes around the world moving westward from the International Date Line along the Equator and allowing one hour's change in time for each 15 degrees of longitude. Suppose you start counting with midnight of the present date.