so that they can pass the rigid tests which entitle them to their certificates.
When Lindbergh flew to Paris it was world-shaking news. A Clipper crew makes it look easy, but remember that its members, among them, have half a century of flight training and experience to make this a routine flight.
Lindbergh was strictly on his own for the 33 hours and 21 minutes that it took the Spirit of St. Louis to make the flight from New York to Paris. He achieved success through an amazing combination of skill, careful planning, courage and perseverance.
For our seven-hour Jet Clipper flight to Paris, we have a crew of four flight officers. And these men represent the experience of hundreds of pilots, engineers and technical specialists who have developed the techniques and procedures which make it possible to fly the oceans as they are flown today.
* * *
Well, just look at your watch. Midnight! And I’ll tell you something else. In Paris it isn’t midnight — it’s already 6 a.m., because there is 6 hours difference in time between New York and Paris. And we’re due there at 8 a.m., Paris time.
We’d better get back to our places and explore the arrangements for sleeping aboard the Jet Clipper — and make use of them!
4*
THINGS TO DO
1.	You can buy aeronautical charts at your local airport. Pilots use these charts and others for flight planning and navigating.
2.	Construct a radio receiving and sending set, or use a regular microphone — public address system to:
A.	Dramatize the procedure used to direct landings and take-offs.
B.	Dramatize communication between the flight crew.
17
The seats for the Jet Clipper have been especially designed for comfort during night flights. The backs recline at a comfortable angle, there is enough width for squirming, and there is a hassock to support the feet and legs.
The stewardess will help us to make the adjustments which turn the President Special seat into the practical equivalent of a chaise lounge. So lean back, pull a Pan Am blanket up to your chin, and have some nine-miles-a-minute sleep.