OKYO
o
G
G
International
We are flying this time from Tokyo, Japan to Seattle for a fuel stop, and then to San Francisco.
This is the Great Circle route, by-passing the former stops at
major stops on other routes. (See maps, inside front cover, and on back cover.)
Wake Island, until 1935, was without any human residents. It was well known to mariners, but hadn’t much interest for them, except as a landmark. To the pioneers of air transportation across the Pacific, it had great interest, because it provided a base for a fuel stop on the first trans-Pacific air route, a base set up by Pan American World Airways in preparation for the inauguration of service in 1935.
Later, the Marine Corps established a garrison on Wake, and the gallant but unsuccessful defense of the island by the Marines at the time of Pearl Harbor is one of the thrilling stories of World War II in the Pacific.
Today, Wake is a busy air route way-station with commercial and military airplanes coming and going day and night. An airport ranking in size and activity with the airports of the biggest cities, it has dispatchers, air traffic controllers, weather observers, radio operators and mechanics stationed there by the air lines, the Civil Aeronautics Administration and the military to provide the services which make trans-Pacific air services possible.
On the flight of “Aviation’s One World,” we fly northeast from Japan at the outset. We’ll pass closer to the Aleutian Islands than to Wake or Honolulu. At about the midway point, our heading-will change, and we’ll proceed in a southeasterly direction. But all this time we’ll be heading directly toward Seattle, over the shortest distance. If this seems difficult to understand, trace the route on a globe, and it will be clear at once.
When we reach the 180th Meridian, we’ll be at the International Date Line. The moment we pass over the International Date Line travelling eastbound, today changes to yesterday. Westbound the opposite would be true—today would become tomorrow.
Shall we explore this matter of the International Date Line, Time Zones and the difference in time of day around the world?
Wake Island and Honolulu. However, both Wake and Honolulu are
26
Date Line
We say that the earth rotates on its axis once in twenty-four hours. More accurately, we could say that we have divided the time interval of the earth’s rotation into twenty-four equal parts and called them hours, making the hour a basic unit in the measurement of time.
As for the earth’s surface, we long ago adopted another system of measurement, based upon the 360 degrees of a circle.
We imagine that a line is drawn around the middle of the earth, equally distant from the North and South Poles, and call it the equator. The equator is a circle, having 360 degrees, and as the earth rotates, the apparent movement of the sun from east to west, in one hour, amounts to one twenty-fourth of 360 degrees, or 15 degrees. This is the basis for the division of the earth’s surface into time zones.
Time zones begin with the zero Meridian, which is another imaginary line on the surface of the earth passing from the North Pole, through Greenwich, England and going on to the South Pole. This line also is called the Greenwich Meridian, and sometimes the Prime Meridian.
Now we add other meridians, or lines from the North Pole to the South Pole, the first one passing 15 degrees to the east of the Zero Meridian, the next one 30 degrees, the next 45 and so on until we are half way around the world and come to 180 degrees, and that is the International Date Line. Then we go back to Greenwich and mark off meridians again, 15 degrees west, 30 degrees west and so on until we have proceeded half way around the world again and arrive at 180 degrees west, which is identical with 180 degrees east, and, once again, is the International Date Line.
This may be visualized as a pealed orange with 24 segments, the lines between segments corresponding to the meridians at 15 degree intervals.
Each meridian is the center line of a time zone, which extends 7^/> degrees to either side. The difference in time is one hour from each time zone to the next. If it is noon at the Zero Meridian, then the time at 15 degrees east is plus one, or 1:00 P.M. At 15 degrees west the time is minus one, or 11:00 A.M. Proceeding around the world again until we come to 180 degrees, we find the difference is twelve hours. At 180 degrees it is midnight.
The day is considered to begin at 180 degrees — the International Date Line, and to move around the globe from east to west. So let’s