R.achi
CALCUTTA ')
INDIA
THAILAND
Our flight across Pakistan, India and Burma to Bangkok, in Thailand, provides an appropriate opportunity to explore another matter that is basic to the operation of air service internationally, and that is the principle of cabotage.
Going into Paris we talked about landing rights—and sovereignty. Cabotage, also, arises from sovereignty. It is fundamental in international law, and applies to all the nations of the world.
It is a very good example of the growth of language that has resulted from the happenings of the Air Age. We not only have new words which are names of things — like airplane and aircraft, and like aileron, which is the word for the control surface which enables an airplane to lift one wing and lower the other to go into a bank when it makes a turn. We also have words for ideas, and cabotage is one of them.
Originally, cabotage meant coastal navigation — the operation of a ship from one port to another on the seacoast of one nation. Sailing from New York City to Baltimore would be an example. In the Air Age, the word has acquired a new meaning — referring to the operation of aircraft from one airport to another, within the boundaries of one nation.
A nation not only has the right to extend or refuse permission for aircraft of other nations to fly over its territory and land on its airports, but it may pick and choose. It may say, you may come to this country with your air line, but only to City A, and no other. Or it may specify City A and B, or any combination of cities it wishes. Also, it may restrict the foreign flag line’s operation between cities A and B. It may say that the foreign flag air line may enter the country, carrying passengers, and land at both A and B, permit passengers to board at either city, or disembark at either city, but deny permission to pick up a passenger at A and let him leave the airplane at B.
This principle affects our flight across India. We fly from Karachi, Pakistan to Calcutta, India then on to Bangkok. On another schedule, we may fly Karachi-Delhi-Bangkok. These are the routes authorized for the Clippers. For journies elsewhere in India, we would use India’s own air line services.
The same principle holds throughout the world. In the United
BANGKOK t‘
»•
States, the air lines of Britain, France and other countries do not carry passengers going between cities in the U.S. only. In Brazil, the Clippers of Pan Am are privileged to land at Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro (and other cities), to land passengers at either city and take them aboard at either city. But the Clippers may not carry passengers between Sao Paulo and Rio when that is the extent of their travel — that service being reserved for the Brazilian air lines.
Cabotage is one of many considerations of international law which have acquired new meaning in the Air Age. No attempt will be made to elaborate upon others in this book, but perhaps this brief discussion is enough to make it clear that the Air Age has created new problems for the legal profession and new opportunities for the lawyers. And this is true, also, in many other professions.
THINGS TO DO
1.	Put together a jig-saw puzzle of the world which may be purchased at a local variety store or hobby shop.
2.	As the airplane serves your community, it also serves other communities of the world. Collect pictures from magazines or newspapers showing the airplane at work in many lands.
3.	Someone in the class or in the community may have a collection of pictures, souvenirs, or costumes from other parts of the world. He might like to prepare an exhibit and tell about it.