The Flight Crew
Here we are in the pilot’s compartment (or flight deck, or “on the bridge.”) Since the Captain and the members of his crew all are busy, we’ll just look over their shoulders (see picture) and I’ll tell you about their duties myself.
Members of the crew call their Captain “The Skipper.” The Captain is in command, with complete authority over the aircraft and the crew. His authority to command extends to the passengers, too. In the vast majority of flights, the only commands he will ever issue to passengers will consist of the instructions flashed in the lighted panel which direct them to “Please Fasten Seat Belts,” and “No Smoking, Please.” But when circumstances call for more active leadership, he has authority to exercise it.
The Captain may be 40 to 45 years old, more likely older. Even the younger captains will have logged 10,000 or more hours of flight time, the older ones twice that, or more. The Captain probably, but not necessarily, began his flying career as a military pilot, and then served fifteen or more years as a co-pilot on the air line.
As a beginning Junior Pilot he first checked out with experienced crews in training flights, then was assigned for further training on regular flights. He “flew” many hours in simulators — training devices which reproduce on the ground the controls and instruments of the real airplanes, and simulate the conditions of actual flying, so that much of the training procedure can be accomplished on the ground.
He served as the navigating officer for a time. He advanced through the ranks, and if he became a Captain during the late thirties or early forties, he won the rating of “Master of Ocean Flying Boats.” Later on, when land planes replaced the flying boats, he checked out on these land planes — the Douglas DC-4, the Boeing 314, the Douglas DC-6 and DC-7.
More recently he qualified as a pilot of Jet Clippers.
Sitting in the left hand position in the cockpit, the Captain normally handles the basic controls for take-offs, during flights and during landings, and the First Officer assists by operating supplemental controls (for flaps, wheels, etc.) communicating by radio with ground stations, consulting maps and manuals, in short, providing supplemental hands, eyes and ears for the Captain.
The Captain may direct the First Officer to handle the controls, for the take-off, during flight, or for the landing. The First Officer is completely capable of doing so, and the Captain makes it a point to give him every possible opportunity to operate the aircraft, for the First Officer not only is there to assist, but also to complete his training to be a Captain. Chief difference between the two is that the First Officer is a younger man, with less hours logged, and therefore his experience and judgment do not as yet equal those of a pilot who has completed his check-outs to be a Captain.
The Navigator also is a pilot, and some time during the flight he’ll be given an opportunity to sit at the controls. But mostly he’ll be busy with his charts and instruments. Before take-off he laid out the projected route on his charts — a route selected by the Captain after studying the weather forecast and giving consideration to other factors. During the flight the Navigator will check actual progress in several ways: (1) By dead reckoning: From time to time he’ll compute the ground speed made good by the aircraft, note on his chronometer the passage of time, and enter on his chart a mark which
15