Your Reservation
Round-the-World
This is Miss Purcell, a PAA Sales Agent. She’s going to make your reservation.
MISS PURCELL:
“When do you want to leave? And what cities do you want to visit? We can give you many different routings. For the first leg of your journey, you may cross the Atlantic direct to London, or Paris — or you can go via Glasgow or via the Azores — and there are choices of routes all the way around.
“You have an itinerary written out? Good. Now we’ll check the space you want. See this metal plate? It looks like a file card — with rectangular projections along the edges.
“When 1 slip it into the slot in ‘P.A.T.’, the Pan Am Teleregister, and
press the correct button I’m asking the electronic equipment out in Long Island City to tell me if there is still space available on The President Special to Paris. We’re starting you off in real style. Now I get a green light, see? So I can book you to Paris. Next we’ll go on with Paris to Beirut, Beirut to Karachi and so on until we have space cleared for you right around the world.
“Some of the space far away from New York is controlled at other centers and we’ll have to request it by sending teletype messages. When we have it all we’ll let you know, and we’ll make up your ticket, and collect the fare, which will be about $1,500, for the combination of services you will be using. It would be less if you used lower cost services all the way — more if you used President and President Special all the way.
“But now there are other things for you to do. You’ll need a passport for this trip, so you’ll have to make application for it at the Passport Office of the Department of State in Washington, or at one of its branch offices, or at your County Court House. With the application you’ll supply your birth certificate, passport pictures and ten dollars for the fee. The application will be checked in Washington, and then in about 2 or 3 weeks you’ll get your passport.
“Some of the countries you plan to visit require visas. For a visa you apply at the country’s Embassy or Ministry in Washington, or its consulate in New York or elsewhere. The visa is a rubber stamp impression on your passport which records your intention to visit the country.
“Now VU offer a few other suggestions. You’ll want to shop for clothes; you’ll want to know something about the customs of the countries you are to visit, you’ll want to know about hotels, sightseeing, shopping and a hundred other things. So the best thing to do is get a travel guide and study it. Such a guide is New Horizons*, which is published by Pan American.
“Find out as much as possible about a country before you go there — by reading, looking at movies and talking to people who have been there. Your trip will be more fun and you’ll get on better.
“Well, that’s it. Have fun on your RTW.”
* Trade Mark, Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
2