has to do with personality. We don’t have to be downright beautiful, but we do have to be easy to look at, and we have to be agreeable, tactful and poised — but positive.
“Maybe we have to insist that a passenger do something he doesn’t really want to do. Maybe we want him to sit still, with his seat belt fastened, and he’d rather not sit still. We have to see that he does sit, and make him happy about it.
“I guess the best way to explain it is this: The sort of girl who would be outstanding as a hostess in her own home is likely to be an outstanding candidate for a fob as a stewardess. I guess that’s why most stewardesses don’t stay with the air line for more than two or three years. The kind of girl who makes a good stewardess, is just the kind that some fellow wants to marry and most stewardesses do get married and stop flying—except as passengers—after two or three years.
“For stewards the requirements are just about the same — except for the things I’ve been saying which apply only to girls. Stewards tend to continue on flight duty longer, making a career of it. Later on they may go on to other jobs in the company — ground jobs in the service department, and sometimes other departments.
“A lot of girls want to be stewardesses, and a lot of young men want to be stewards. There are plenty of applications. But a lot of people just aren’t eligible. They’re very fine people, but just don’t fit in for stewards and stewardesses. So, even though we have all these applications, we sometimes have to advertise in the papers, and sometimes the Flight Service Superintendent has to go out on recruiting trips. So if you know anyone ivho wants to be a steward or stewardess, there are plenty of openings. And it’s no disgrace if you are not selected — if we picked someone who was not suitable such a person would just be unhappy and quit, anyway.
“People are hired for steward and stewardess jobs in groups, and put into classes for training.
“At International Airport in New York, at Miami, and at San Francisco, these classes are in session just about all the time. Training has to be continuous like this, so we’ll have new stewardesses to fill the jobs when the girls resign to get married, or for other reasons.
“I trained at New York. In the training department there we have a Clipper cabin mockup, with real airplane seats, a galley, all the equipment used by cabin attendants and a public address system. The stewards and stewardesses in training start as “passen-
gers”. They sit in the seats, and the instructors serve them. Then we change around. The people in training do the serving and the
instructors criticize.
“JVe have lectures and demonstrations, too. And we have very thorough instruction as to what our duties will be in case there is an emergency. Fortunately, most of us never have an occasion to carry out these emergency duties, but we're always ready. We have refresher courses in them constantly, all the time that we are employed.
“If we pass in the cabin attendants instruction course, we’re assigned to flight duty — the first time out fust to watch, and do what the purser tells us to do, and then with a regular assignment . . .
“Do I like my fob? Sure! Look, I’ll have two days in Paris at the end of this fight. Next time out I’ll fy to Helsinki. When I get my vacation, I’ll take a trip to South America and it will cost me a lot less than you would have to pay. I’ll be a passenger, and let them wait on me!
“Will I quit and get married? I suppose so, most of us do.
“To a pilot or a passenger? Not very likely, although it does happen sometimes. The Captains and the business men passengers generally are married already, and I guess the junior pilots already have girl friends. Anyway, the steivardesses don’t marry pilots or passengers any more frequently than nurses marry doctors or patients, and probably less frequently.
“As for me, right now, I’ll have to leave you. Some of the passengers might want pillows or blankets, so that they can rest comfortably for the next few hours.”
Thank you, Miss Stanley. Do you think perhaps we might visit with the Captain and the flight crew now, and get them to tell us about their work, too?
MISS STANLEY: “Yes, I’m sure you could. If this were a real flight it wouldn’t be so easy, but this is imaginary, so go right along to the pilot’s compartment and introduce yourselves.”
THINGS TO DO
1.	Check your newspaper or television guide for stories about people in aviation so that you can see the play on your TV.
2.	Invite a steward or stewardess to talk to your class or the school about their work and the cities, states and countries they have visited.