The Flight Plan
As imaginary passengers, we’ll do something now that rarely is possible for actual air travelers. We’ll visit the flight crew now, before boarding the plane, while they are consulting with the dispatcher and meteorologist (weather man) and planning our flight.
The officers of the flight crew are the Captain, First Officer, Navigator and Flight Engineer. Two or three hours before the scheduled take-off time, the members of our flight crew met at the airport to plan the flight. (See picture.) The fifth man in the group is the dispatcher. (Center) Note that his breast pocket insigne has one wing only, denoting a ground job. They have before them all the information which has been collected about weather over the route we are to fly.
This weather report has the answers to a number of important questions:
1.	Are weather conditions satisfactory to assure the safety of the flight? If the answer should be “No,” which can happen, even with today’s advanced aids to flight, the flight is postponed. If the answer is “Yes,” flight planning continues.
2.	What route shall we fly?
The weather map tells the flight crew which route will mean the shortest flight in terms of time. An airplane flying with the wind, a tailwind, goes faster ... an airplane flying against the wind, a headwind, flies slower. The weather map shows how to take advantage of tailwinds and how to avoid headwinds.
3.	What altitude shall we fly?
Wind direction is often different at different altitudes. Weather reports give direction and speed of winds at different altitudes, so the Captain decides not only the route, but also the best altitude at which he will fly the Clipper.
4.	What route will be most comfortable for the passengers? In addition to affecting flying time, the choice of route and altitude can make the difference between a smooth or rough flight. Therefore, the Captain must consider not only speed and economy of fuel, but also the route and altitude which will provide the smoothest air for the comfort of his passengers.
The sample weather map on the page opposite shows the wind pattern at various levels possible for flight. Such upper air maps are similar to the weather maps you will see in newspapers, but in addition show “Jet Streams” which are now routinely used to give aircraft a “boost” on their way to their destinations.
Since the wind pattern is always changing, we study the weather map and select our tracks or flight paths, to take the greatest possible advantage of the winds, taking into account, of course, the weather conditions as well.
You may also notice on the map, three “low pressure” areas and one marked “high.” The air surrounding a high rotates in clockwise direction, that around a low circulates counter-clockwise. If our pilot planning an eastbound flight selects the area to the north of the word “high” on the map, he would be aided by a following wind. If he selected a route below the “low” areas, the counter-clockwise circulation around the “low” would also provide a following wind, so either would be favorable and the decision could be based on other factors.
Fronts extend along the boundaries between air masses. Adjoining air masses are almost certain to be at different temperatures — where they come together the colder air of one mass will slide under the warmer air of the other — or warm air will climb up over the cold—
Vs’ 'xH*: ■ s*