or both movements will take place simultaneously. This results in varying degrees of cloudiness, turbulence (violent movement of the air) and precipitation (rain or snow). Fronts are to be avoided by going around or over the top, and the Jet Clippers, which can go to 35,000 feet or more, if necessary, ordinarily can avoid such turbulent air.
In addition to receiving pre-flight weather information, Clippers are in constant contact, via radio, with weather stations en route. And Clippers now are radar-equipped, allowing the navigator to “see” the weather miles ahead of the flight. When a severe localized storm shows up on the radar screen, for example, the Captain may change his route slightly to avoid the disturbance.
The up-to-the'-minute wind-and-weather information Pan Am’s Meteorological Division gathers around the clock and around the world furnishes the data for plotting your flight. And it’s reassuring to know that your flight crew is in continuous two-way communication with PAA’s world-wide facilities on the ground.
7
In the picture are two ground communications employees. Between them is a teletype machine. These two men send or relay weather reports and other information having to do with the safe operation or the airplane.
The communications systems of the airlines use radio, ocean cables, teletype machines, telegraph, telephones, air mail and ordinary mail. The communications system used by air transportation is probably the largest and most complicated that exists for any industry.
Well, time has slipped away. Our flight is being announced on the public address system. So we’ll go on to the gate and board our airplane.
THINGS TO DO
1.	With the help of encyclopedias, prepare an oral or written report about the men who invented the radio, telegraph and telephone.
2.	If you will call your airport manager he usually can arrange a trip to the weather center so that you can see some of the same reports the flight crews use.
3.	Choose a "radio announcer" in your class to give a weather report each morning. Have a "reporter" record the information on the chalkboard similar to TV reports.
4.	Join the American Meteorological Society, 3 Joy Street, Boston 8, Massachusetts, as a student member, and receive weather magazines.
5.	Bring to class weather maps from your daily newspapers. Interpret the map, wind directions, hot and cold "fronts," and check these against the reports given by your class "radio announcer."