Meals
The President Special is the de luxe service. It costs more to fly aboard The President Special, because you receive more in conveniences, comforts and luxuries. An example is the meal service.
We are well on our way, now, at the dinner hour, on this flight across the Atlantic. We’ve been flying for an hour — there is no land in sight, we’re almost 600 miles away from New York. On the surface of the ocean below us the waves are fifteen feet high, but they don’t seem so to us. We’re miles above them, and the waves look like ripples on a pond.
Our speed is nine miles a minute, but we have no feeling of fast movement. If we look out the window, and downward, the ocean seems to be almost motionless. There is no noise, and not even very much sound, from the Clipper’s powerful engines. We are only faintly aware of the engines’ roar, because the passenger cabin walls are so thoroughly sound-proofed, and because we go so fast we fly away from the noise!
And out here among the clouds over the ocean, we’re about to
Aloft
enjoy a service for which Pan American is justly famous, a tempting, appetizing full course meal, served in style on spotless linen, with gleaming china, silver and glassware.
From the beginning of airline service, it was recognized that if passengers were flying at meal time, food service must be provided. At first “meals” meant sandwiches and coffee, but over the years the airlines have found ways of making preparations in advance so that stewards and stewardesses can give you complete meals, even deluxe meals.
All the makings for a full-course dinner are stowed in the Clipper’s galley before departure, methodically arranged so that the purser and stewardesses can serve a whole plane load of passengers in an hour or less.
Two huge commissaries, one at International Airport in New York City, the other in Paris, have been set up to prepare in advance the various elements of the President Special de luxe meals for the transatlantic flights. These commissaries also prepare the food for the other Pan Am services.
In Paris, the commissary is maintained by Maxim’s of Paris—world renowned for fine food. The commissary at Idlewild is operated by the air line. The two operations are similar, being supervised jointly by Pan American and Maxim’s.
For President Special meals, seven different entrees are available on every flight, ranging from lobster thermidor to roast beef. Most of these are completely prepared and cooked, then frozen, and held in lockers at zero temperature until time to be loaded into a Clipper galley.
Frozen meals also are shipped from the two headquarters commissaries, in refrigerator units, to various distribution centers across Europe and Asia, and held there for use when needed. Food service in the Pacific area is provided by other commissaries in that area.
For steaks, the procedure is a little different. The top grade steaks are cut and trimmed and frozen for storage. In the Clipper galley, they are cooked to order, whether rare, medium rare, medium or well done over a grill which is a panel of electronically heated quartz, capable of completely cooking a steak in seven minutes. The stewards and stewardesses who use the quartz grills say they are “cooking with glass.”
I