•	Birth certificate or some other official proof of citizenship.
•	Vaccination certificate.
•	Traveler’s checks.
•	Driver’s license if you plan to drive in the islands. (You’ll have to show it to get a temporary driver’s permit.)
•	Personal address book.
•	Shopping, dining, sight-seeing guides.
Time to take ofi
At last, the moment of departure has arrived. Your plane has just been announced and is waiting. Your excitement begins to grow. Breathlessly, you hasten to board.
How spacious the interior. How charming the stewardess who greets you.
You sink into your seat. You never had it so comfortable.
You look out the window, wave at friends. Fasten your seat belt. Majestically you glide down the runway, gather momentum. Suddenly, you’re airborne — so smoothly that for a moment you don’t even realize it. And as you soar up — up — up, you feel the confining bonds of earth drop away. You’re free — from the daily routine of home or office — with nothing ahead of you but sun and fun.
You fihd yourself relaxing more and more. Close your eyes briefly for a few winks. Riffle through a magazine. There’s a gentle clinking of glasses. Cocktails — prelude to lunch. And for the first time since you boarded, you realize you’re hungry.
Maxim's at 30,000 feet
Your taste buds tingle with anticipation, as you gaze over the President Special menu — typical of the kind
served on all Pan Am flights around the world. Here’s gourmet service at its finest. By Maxim’s — source of the most famous French cuisine in the world.
A typical President Special menu offers these gourmet entrees: Cornish Hen stuffed with Wild Rice — Madeira Sauce. Grilled Fillet Steak with Maitre D’Hotel Butter. Or Sole Meuniere. Garnished with string beans with almonds and croquette potatoes.
Plus an excellent selection of fine wines from the famous vineyards of Bourdeau or Burgundy. Or you may prefer champagne. Brut Millesime, especially selected for Pan Am.
To top it off, there’s a delightful selection of cheeses from around the world. Dessert. Fruit. Coffee or tea. And finally, your favorite liqueur.
Of course, the service is impeccable.
In Rainbow Economy, service is equally gracious. You enjoy a delicious full-course hot meal, bearing the gourmet stamp that is the unmistakable mark of Maxim’s. Cocktails and wines too, if you wish, at nominal prices.
No matter which class you fly, your Pan Am meal will be one of the highlights of your trip.
A good feeling all the way
It’s something special. This trip of yours. And Pan Am keeps it special all the way — by giving you the good feeling of knowing you’re in the best hands in the world. Your flight captain is a man with millions of miles of flying behind him. Your jet is the finest built. It has just left the hands of expert technicians who have given it an exhaustive physical checkup — checked and re-checked it from nose to tail. When a Pan Am jet takes to the air, it purrs with contentment. You will too.
Come! Fly Pan Am to the Caribbean! The Islands Are Waiting! The Sun, Sea and Sands Are Waiting! What's Keeping You?
16