are nearly 50% lower than regular fares. Round trip to Trinidad from New York is just $209. St. Croix, $161. Barbados, $189. Jamaica, $155. Antigua or St. Martin, $161. Curacao or Aruba, $150. Miami to Jamaica is just $64, to Trinidad $170.
If you don’t want to settle for just one island, do a little island-hopping. Stay on one island a few days. Go on to another. And another. You can adventure through as many as 13 islands for the price of one under Pan Am’s Extra Cities Plan.
To give you but one example, a trip from New York can include Antigua, Trinidad, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Puerto Rico, St. Thomas, St. Croix, Curacao, Aruba, St. Martin, St. Lucia, Haiti/Dominican Republic — all for the price of a single round trip ticket to Trinidad. Only $209 from New York, $170 from Miami, if you do it within the limitation of the 17-day excursion fare.
... Or a
package tour
Pan Am has a whole planeload of ready-to-enjoy package tours. You can pick out practically any collection of islands to fit your time and budget. These tours include your plane fare, accommodations in first class hotels, meals, sightseeing. One 15-day Caribbean Circle Tour is almost irresistible. It puts you up in St. Thomas for four days, takes you on a catamaran cruise to St. John for a day. Then to San Juan for three days. After that — Jamaica. And you can choose between fashionable Montego Bay and Ocho Rios. From New York, this tour is only $505. Costs even less between May 1 and November 30. You’ll find many other package tours available at reduced rates during the off-season.
There are honeymoon packages, too. And your Travel Agent can tell you which Caribbean resorts go all out — welcome the newlyweds on arrival with free rum punches or champagne — and gifts.
Of course, if you prefer an individual tour — planned to your exact desires — just select your islands and your Pan Am Travel Agent will arrange all the details for you.
Maybe rent a yacht?
For a different kind of vacation, consider renting a yacht, complete with crew. By joining up with other couples, you can make your vacation more luxurious and less expensive than you might imagine.
There are yachts for hire in many islands. A popular place is Yacht Haven on St. Thomas where you can charter a yacht with crew. Or Antigua, where there’s an excellent fleet of yachts ready for hire by the week or more. These yachts usually sleep six or more persons and by splitting the cost, your share can run as
4