There are beachcombers — Tobago, Grenada, Aruba, St. Lucia — for those who yearn for nothing more than to dream away in isolation. There are islands for those who want both — Antigua, Haiti, Barbados, St. Thomas — with a mixture of quaint native life — and Calypso songs and steel bands thrown in. For the sports lovers, there are islands like Nassau and the Bahamas with some of the sportiest game fishing in the world.
Indeed, in the Caribbean, you can choose your own pace. No two islands are exactly the same. Be as lively or as lazy as you wish. Your mood, time and budget will be your guide. On pages 13 to 15, we’ve pinpointed some Caribbean highlights which will help you choose the islands you might like.
When to Go?
Anytime. The Caribbean is a year-round sunny delight. Of course, the busiest (and most expensive) season is mid-December to mid-April — when the islands are jammed with people fleeing the icy blasts of winter.
In the off-season, the Caribbean is quieter. Milling winter vacationers have gone home. The weather is still the same — thanks to the ever-blowing trade winds. Bright and mild. The sea and sand are just as inviting. The islands are still beautiful. Even more so. The flowers bloom more brightly and abundantly. The trees serve up banquets of colorful, delicious fruits. The cities and villages are as bright and sparkling as ever. And it’s much easier to get a good hotel room at a reasonable price.
Even the swankiest hotel rates take a refreshing dip — from one-third to one-half—making luxury living in these pleasure palaces a real bargain. Other costs go down out of season too ... on self-drive cars, taxis, package tours. Yachts cost less to charter.
Average temperatures and climate don’t change much throughout the year, so, except that there are fewer visitors, the only real difference between winter and the off-season is that fewer dollars buy your bed, board and fun.
No matter when you go — in season or out — you’ll have a wonderful time.
What will it cost?
It depends on your taste and budget, of course. You can live in luxury — and naturally your cost will be high. On the other hand, you can stay at any number of modestly-priced hotels, inns or guest houses. (See page 7 for examples.) You can duck the fancy restaurants. Lunch on a sandwich at the beach. Put-put around on a rented motor scooter or ride a bicycle — instead of hiring a car or using taxis. And for a real shoe-string idea, you might pitch a tent. Some islands have special parks for camping, with picnic tables, charcoal grilles. Water is available, but the outdoor plumbing is primitive. And of course, first come, first served.
Pick a low fare...
Ready to go? Choose a Pan Am money-saving fare. You can pick Pan Am Thrift Jet round trip fare — only $121.50 from New York to San Juan, Puerto Rico — $36 less even than the regular economy fare. It’s good all year round. And if you visit San Juan for 10 days or less, Pan Am has a special excursion fare that’s one of the world’s biggest travel bargains — $104.00 round trip. But you must travel on weekdays within certain periods — January 9 through June 15, and July 31 through December 15.
Got 17 days to spend? You can enjoy a deluxe slice of the sun any time of the year on a new series of 17-day excursion fares. Some 17-day excursion fares
3