vibrant, swinging. The villages sparkle with charm. The hills and mountains wear brilliant tropical flowers. There’s vivid color all around. All this — and so near!
These pages have been written to help you plan your escape to the Caribbean. They’re packed with the kind of information you’ll want to know. After you’ve read them, give yourself a nudge. Pick up your phone.
Call your
Pan Am Travel Agent
Now that you’ve decided to head for the Caribbean, you’ll have the pleasant project of planning your trip.
Which island or islands to visit? For how long? One week? Two weeks? Longer? What will it cost?
The beauty of the Caribbean is that it offers a stunning variety of islands to fit every taste — travel bargains galore to suit every time and money limit. But it takes some canny planning to make sure the trip you take will be all that you want it to be. So while this booklet will help you start, we recommend you talk to your Pan Am Travel Agent before making final decisions. He’s just about the canniest planner you’ll find anywhere. He knows all about travel bargains being of-
fered. He’ll tell you the best hotels, restaurants, shopping and entertainment for what you have to spend. And lots of times, he can even figure out a tri0 that will cost you even less than you thought you’d have to pay.
It will help your travel agent, though, if you decide roughly where and when you’d like to go, whether you want to sacrifice the high life for fishing, shopping for snorkeling. That way he can better help you plan the exact vacation that will give you most pleasure for the time and money you have to spend.
Say where and when
Where to Go?
That, of course, depends on your likes and dislikes. But the Caribbean offers something for everybody. There’s a whole ocean-full of islands to choose from. Thousands. They poke up their lovely heads in a giant arc stretching some 2,500 miles.
There are lively sophisticates — Jamaica, Trinidad, Puerto Rico — for those who want cocktail lounge luxury and the dimlit excitement of gambling casinos.
2