the Bahamas and Trinidad, remember to drive on the left side of the road.)
If you prefer, you can rent a car with chauffeur. Generally speaking, you can take your own car to any of the islands — except Bermuda. But it isn’t worth the time and expense for a short visit.
As for getting from island to island, there’s nothing easier or simpler than to hop around by air.
Famous restaurants and nightclubs
You can sit down to the real fun of eating and merrymaking in any one of hundreds of places where there’s comfort, gaity, local color and delicious food.
Again, you can choose your pleasure. If you’d rather listen to the pounding surf than the wild beat of the tom-toms, dine in a charming inn or quietly elegant restaurant. Or relax in the moonlight on the terrace.
But if it’s swinging night life you want, you’ll find plenty. After dark, the islands come alive with laughter, singing and dancing. Most of the large hotels and restaurants have steel bands, calypso singers, goom-bay music, bongo drums, lavish floor shows, limbo dances. Or you can go to an outlying cantina for some native-style night life. Or wander into a gambling casino and have yourself a little flutter. You might see a voodoo ritual — if you can find something authentic. Some can be interesting. Others are boring or sheer fakes, so be discriminating.
You’ll surely want to dine in a replica of an original pirate’s tavern. There are several. Memorable is Blackbeard’s Tavern in Nassau. It not only has an interesting pirate atmosphere, but it also serves a good steak to the tune of calypso music. Dirty Dick’s and The Cat and the Fiddle Club jump with goombay rhythm, native music and dancing. The Bar-Ma serves delightful drinks in pineapple and coconut shells. They’re in Nassau too.
At night in Haiti, you’ll find life throbs to the beat of the African drums. Catch some of it at the Cabane Choucoune — an immense nightclub built like a typical conical African thatched hut.
If you go to San Juan, Puerto Rico, spend an evening at the shell-shaped LaConcha. It has glass walls on all sides so you can see the lights of the city on one hand — and the open sea on the other. Don’t miss the famous old Malloquina Restaurant in Old San Juan. It’s the oldest restaurant in Puerto Rico, serves excellent Puerto Rican and Spanish dishes to the accompaniment of pulsing guitars.
In Antigua, the Bucket of Blood really jumps with steel bands. Make it a point, too, to see the wonderful clown dancers called “maskers” who perform on beaches. Their dances are like nothing you’ll see anywhere else in the islands.
While in Jamaica, drop into the Glass Bucket in Kingston, one of the most famous nightclubs. Or the Rainbow Club where you can dance under the stars on an open terrace to good calypso music. Here too, there’s the Club Havana that beats out not only sprightly calypso but also cha-chas and mambos. The
11