on a bamboo raft. If you do, be sure to wear your swimsuit and bring something for protection from the sun. Some cool liquid refreshments and a picnic basket too. It’s fun to stop for a dip and lunch by a shaded pool on your way down the river.
You might take a shot at hunting alligators or wild boars. Or prospecting for pirate treasure.
There are all kinds of sports for watchers too. Cockfights, baseball, Jai Alai matches, horse races.
Most major hotels can make arrangements for your participation in any sport, including equipment.
Want to pick up booty?
Pirate gold is pretty scarce, but there’s still plenty of booty for the tourist. For the Caribbean is a shopper’s paradise when it comes to choice goods from all over the world at low prices. You’ll be picking up things simply because you can’t afford not to.
A shopping tip. The islands that belong to a European country will have the best goods from that home
country — and at the lowest prices. For example, the French islands will have the best bargains in perfumes, wines, crystal. The British islands — in woolens, cashmeres, fine cottons, china, silverware. While the Dutch islands are unbeatable for Delft ware, tiles, silver, diamonds and other precious stones.
In addition, some islands have either free ports or “in bond” shops. Price tags on watches, jewelry, cashmeres, perfumes, liquor, cameras are often 50% lower than you’d pay for the same things at home. In the free ports, all imported merchandise is sold dutyfree. That is, the prices you pay do not include the usual import duties. The ‘‘in bond” shops give you the same benefits, but your purchases must be delivered to your plane.
Equally tempting are the many beautiful native products — straw baskets and hats, mahogany sculptures and wood carvings. Pick up a voodoo trophy — an authentic one if you can find it — or some voodoo-inspired jewelry.
In planning your trip to particular islands, check with your Travel Agent for the best buys and shops to visit for each of the islands you want to go to — and plan your shopping so that you’ll get the full benefit of this shopper’s paradise.
9