cameras, binoculars. Visit Bluebeard’s Castle — actually supposed to have been the haunt of the notorious buccaneer. Ramble through Charlotte Amalie, a gay city and bustling free port shopping center. On St. Croix, you’ll see ancient sugar mills, rippling cane fields. Stop in Christiansted and Frederiksted — quaintly Danish towns of pink and buff buildings with red roofs. St. John is wild, tropical, quiet, spectacularly beautiful. Here is famed National Park, filled with exotic plants, trees, shrubs, flowers. The beaches are delightful.
Time to pack
Since the weather stays predictably the same — sunny and warm — all year round, you don’t have the problem of packing for highly changeable climates. Whether you go winter or summer, you’ll need summer clothes only.
Pack light — and in a lightweight suitcase. It pays, especially if you’re flying. You are allowed 44 pounds in tourist, 66 pounds in first class. If interconnecting flights on domestic airlines are involved, their luggage limits may vary somewhat.
Wherever possible, choose synthetic drip-dry clothes. Since nylon can be hot in the tropics, a combination of dacron and cotton is recommended. Women will find blouses and a skirt highly versatile, as well as excellent space and weight savers. Above all, don’t overload with a lot of extras. You can buy cosmetics, film, toiletries and clothes at almost all the islands. You’ll probably want to buy some sweaters and sport clothes in the islands anyway — especially since you can buy them at prices substantially less than at home.
Here are suggested basic wardrobes:
For women — A woman should have a practical cotton knit dress or suit to wear while traveling. One or two informal drip-d.ry cottons — a skirt and a couple of interchangeable blouses — for sightseeing and shopping. Two gay cocktail dresses. One dressy cotton for informal evenings. A sweater, wool stole or light evening jacket is useful after the sun goes down. You’ll probably want two bathing suits, a beach robe and sandals. Shorts may be worn for sports or the beach but should not be worn on the streets. Don’t forget a comfortable pair of walking shoes for sightseeing, dancing slippers. A hat if you expect to go to church. Stockings and lingerie.
For men — A man needs a basic dark summer-weight suit — preferably of synthetic fibers since these stand up best. It should be dressy enough for most afterdark activities. You’ll need an informal sport coat, slacks to go with it, and a good supply of short-sleeved sports and white shirts, drip dry. Pack two swim suits, at least one pair of walking shorts, a sweater for cooler evenings. Walking shoes and beach sandals. Socks and underwear — all of quickdrying synthetics. Don’t forget knee length socks to go with your shorts ... and a couple of ties, as a jacket and tie are correct dinner dress in most hotels.
Tip for Northerners: Once you board your Jet Clipper for the islands, you won’t be needing a heavy coat. You might consider wearing a raincoat which is easy to pack.
A last-minute check-off list
Before you walk out your door, check to see if you’ve got your...
•	Pan Am Jet Clipper reservations.
•	Hotel reservations.
15