certificate, proof of naturalization or some other official identification. You may have to show it. Also, some islands may want to see a vaccination certificate. So if you haven’t been vaccinated within the last 3 years, get that scratch — duly recorded by your doctor. You’ll have to show a vaccination certificate anyway to get back into the United States.
Incidentally, if you stay longer than 10 days in Martinique, you will need a passport. Your travel agent will tell you how to apply (and it’s simple) at Passport Agencies of the Department of State or at the office of a Clerk of a Federal Court (see your phone book).
Note to Canadians: Pan Am or your travel agent can tell you where passports may be required and how to apply for them.
What about money?
If you go all over the Caribbean, you’ll be figuring in a variety of money. BEEWEE dollars in the British islands, except Jamaica where the pound sterling is used. Haitian gourdes, Dutch guilders, French francs. Here are their valuations in American money ...
British BEEWEE dollar is worth about 600- The pound — $2.80. The gourde — 200. Five francs make a $1.00.
You can use American dollars in Puerto Rico and the American Virgin Islands.
But don’t worry about money. American dollars are accepted almost everywhere at fair exchange rates.
How you carry your money is, of course, vitally important. The most prudent way is to travel with Traveler’s Checks which you can change at any bank. You’ll find $10 and $20 denominations most useful. American Traveler’s Checks on reputable banks or agencies are as good as gold throughout the area.
The
language barrier that isn't there
Many languages are spoken in the islands — French, Dutch, Spanish, English, all kinds of dialects. But English is spoken almost everywhere, so by and large, you’ll have no trouble in making yourself understood. Certainly not in the larger centers. But should you run into any difficulties, you can always resort to some good old pantomime — which usually works when all else fails.
How much to tip
Tipping exists in the Caribbean as everywhere else. In some hotels, it is added as a service charge to your bill. When this is done, you have nothing else to do but smile when it’s time to leave.
Otherwise, tip as you would at home — 10-15%. In most restaurants you can tip 10% and not be taken for a piker. In luxurious hotels, night clubs and restaurants, however, 12 to 15% of the bill is expected.
Getting there
You can get to the Caribbean fast and easy on a Pan Am jet. Flights are frequent. As the airline which pioneered air travel to the Caribbean, Pan Am offers more flights to more islands than any other airline. It has a spiderweb of facilities through the islands, supplemented by local airlines that link all the more important islands together. Pan Am or your travel agent can make arrangements for any necessary ground transportation, at standard rates.
You can leave New York or Miami and be in Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Barbados, or Trinidad in a few hours. Hops between islands are often measured in minutes— less time than it takes an average commuter to get home from his office. And there is at least daily Pan Am service between the major islands.
6