Caribbean highlights
Choosing the Islands You’d Like to Visit — Things You Won’t Want to Miss
Antigua—Wonderfully broad pink and white beaches stretch as far as the eye can see — ringed with lovely coral reefs. Villages of thatched huts, old plantations with ruined sugar mills. Some outstanding steel bands.
See English Harbour, out of which doughty Nelson sailed in pursuit of the French and Spanish fleet. Restoration includes dockyard with all the old workshops, the Admiral’s house, still furnished with some of his original possessions. Visit St. John, lovely little seaport town and the island’s capital.
Barbados — Place of sugar plantations with many old great houses built by planters in centuries past still standing and lived in. Flying fish.
Take your choice of swimming in two seas — the surf-splashing Atlantic or the tranquil, translucent Caribbean. See Bridgetown, picturesque port of old wharves, Sam Lord’s Castle. Explore the fantastic animal flower caves at Speightstown.
Bermuda — Quaintly British — noted for its golf courses, moonlight dancing and serenity. Tour 17th century St. George’s, Fort St. Catherine, the Aquarium, Crystal Caves, the Devil’s Hole. Take a trip through the marine gardens in a glass-bottom boat.
Cayman Islands — Off the tourist track — and are vacation bargains for escapists who want beaching, swimming, fishing. Grand Cayman particularly interesting with caves and “blow holes” .. .and a spectacular crescent beach that extends 6 miles.
Grenada — Known as the “Isle of Spice”, it’s one of the most delightful tropical islands. Quiet and peaceful. Since it grows nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon and other spices, the smell of spice hangs over it — reminiscent of the Far East.
Ramble through the picturesque little town of St. George’s with its pastel-colored houses and red roofs. Visit Grenville, where spices are prepared for market.
Guadeloupe — Shaped like a butterfly, it has delightful beaches of black and white sands, picturesque coastline, and perhaps the best rum in the Caribbean. Great expanses of sugar cane and banana trees.
Haiti — Claims the best drumming in the world. Good arts, authentic dancing, sugar mills, rum factories and native markets.
See Port-au-Prince, a city of color, gaiety and charm where elegance and simplicity live side by side in fascinating contrast. Ramble through the fabulous Iron Market — an enormous bedlam covering two city blocks. Tour Cap-Haitian with its famed Citadel on a mountain peak that took 13 years and 200,000 men to build. The walls are 25 feet thick.
Jamaica — Once notorious for its buccaneers, it is today one of the most popular playgrounds in the Caribbean.
Visit Montego Bay where the international set hangs out, Kingston with its quaint mixture of West Indian color and modern living, historic Spanish Town, just west of Kingston, the original capital founded by Diego Columbus. Stop at Morgan’s Harbour in the new Port Royal which was built over the ruins of the old Port Royal, destroyed by earthquake. Some ruins still visible. Wander through the Craft Market, a vast jumble of straw products and other native handicraft. Take a trip through the Hope Gardens, just five miles from Kingston, 200 acres of tropical trees, flowers, shrubs. You’ll find the “jungle walk and orchid house” particularly intriguing.
Sample the lush scenery in Ocho Rios, another fabulous resort area. See Dunn’s Fall — a beauty spot famous all over the world. Take the rafting trip down the Rio Grande.
Martinique — Lovely mountainous and volcanic island with French charm and tropical beauty.
See the ruins of the old Martinique destroyed by an eruption. Visit the volcanic museum at the foot of the volcano. Since the island is volcanic, it has soft black sands.
13