Blue Mountain Inn offers delightful dining in a charming Old World atmosphere — with outdoor gardens and waterfalls.
In Montego Bay, there’s the LaRonde, a continental type cabaret where you can dine, dance and enjoy a good floor show. Also the Cellar, a supper and music club. Good places to sample native dishes are the Breadfruit Tree and Hanna’s.
In Ocho Rios, the “Great House” — a restored 1863 building has a bar in the patio with a thatched roof and old rum barrels for chairs.
The best place to sample flying fish is at the Flying Fish Club in Bridgetown, on Barbados. Also here the New Caribee has a pleasant Roof Deck for listening to calypso.
And of course, don’t miss the calypso songs and steel bands in Trinidad. That’s where they were born. You’ll find them going strong every night — everywhere.
Once-a-year
happenings
There are carnivals, festivals, tournaments galore in the islands. All the islands have New Year’s parades and celebrations. But if color, excitement and human interest are what you’re looking for — come during Carnival time. Nothing else in the islands touches it for unrestrained gaity and abandonment.
Carnival traditionally precedes Ash Wednesday. At this time, most of the islands explode in a wild frenzy of merrymaking. Revelers don grotesquely humorous costumes and caper madly. There’s singing and dancing in the streets. Roving steel bands and calypso singers. Parades of floats, costume balls and parties all over town. Thunderous fireworks that stop your breath.
You’ll find the goings on in Haiti and Trinidad the most exciting and colorful. In Trinidad too, you’ll feel the carnival spirit all year long. Mix the people of Europe, Africa, China, India, Middle East — and what happens. Everybody celebrates everybody else’s holiday.
Another big event that draws thousands of music lovers is the Annual Casals Festival in Puerto Rico. It comes usually in late May and early June and features international concert artists under the direction of renowned cellist-conductor, Pablo Casals.
Then there are sailing regattas — usually held from April thru June. Fishing, golf and cricket tournaments. In the French islands — Martinique and Guadeloupe— Bastille Day, July 14th, bursts with fireworks and parades.
The harvest festivals generally come in October and November. All Saints Day, November 1, is celebrated with processions and candle-lit ceremonies. At Christmas, there are celebrations everywhere — trees, fireworks, carols, parades, torches, fetes.
12