Those fellows in customs
What's the weather like?
Returning U.S. Residents:
If you’ve been out of the U.S. for 48 hours or longer — Puerto Rico doesn’t count because it’s American soil—you can bring or send back purchases up to $100 duty-free. (Of course you may bring back more — and pay the duty — which may still make your total cost a real bargain.) You can bring in 1 quart of dutyfree liquor— if you are 21 years of age or over.
You are allowed to import $200 worth of duty-free merchandise from the Virgin Islands — and 1 gallon of liquor.
Of course, some articles like fruits cannot be brought home unless they meet Public Health Requirements.
Returning Canadian Residents:
Duty-free allowance varies from $25 to $100 depending on length of your absence from Canada. So, too, do regulations as to whether goods brought back must accompany you or may be shipped separately. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am office can give you details.
About cigarettes. American cigarettes are expensive in most of the islands. They usually run from 500 to 600 a pack, so it’s a good idea to take your own supply when you go to the islands. You’ll have to pay duty, but they’ll still be cheaper. There are, of course, various local brands available for 150, 250 or so a pack.
June all year round. The average temperature ranges from 78 to 83 degrees, thanks to the refreshing trade winds that puff gently and continuously over the islands. Evenings are spectacular with gorgeous sunsets that deepen quickly into starlit night.
Rarely do the islands have a grey day. Rain consists mostly of brief showers that usually come between May and October. They come fast, blow on quickly, followed by sunshine and the most beautiful rainbows.
Hurricanes do happen, as you well know. These usually occur between August and October. Four or five a year is the average. But the warning system is so highly developed that you’ll have plenty of advance warning. And if you’re already in the islands, you can pack up and flit along ahead of the storm.
Getting around the Islands
Usually no problem. You can rent a bicycle or put-put around on a motorbike. They are inexpensive to hire and are a wonderful way to explore a little bit of an island each day. Taxis are available. Buses are crowded but fun. Or you can rent a drive-yourself car. Cost, about $10 a day — $40 to $60 a week — and you generally supply the gasoline. Your driver’s permit will get you a temporary license. (In Bermuda,
10