Nassau and the Bahamas — Hundreds of beach-rimmed islands — famous for big-game fishing. Fly direct to Nassau or Rock Sound.
Tour Nassau — a city of fringe-topped carriages, pink and white homes. Visit Fort Charlotte with its eerie dungeons, the Ardastra Gardens where 50 pink flamingos are drilled in an incredible “Pink Ballet.” Ride in a glass-bottom boat to the Sea Gardens of fantastic coral growths, brilliant tropical fish. Take a trip to the out islands, including Eleuthera, lovely and historic, Bimini, pretty and quiet with lovely beaches — also Abaco, Andros and Grand Bahama.
Netherland Antilles — As Dutch as an old wooden shoe.
Stop on Curacao with its charming town of Willemstad— gabled houses wearing delicate shades of pink, green, blue, yellow. Noted for free port sales of world-famous goods at bargain prices. Aruba is a small island with talcum-white beaches, quaint houses with orange-tiled roofs. Wonderful Dutch food. Go to Bonaire, a truly out-of-the-way island. Famous attraction is a rookery where some 5000 flamingos nest. Whole island is a kind of sanctuary for brilliantly-hued tropical birds.
Puerto Rico — Delightfully old and new. A lush island of coffee and banana trees, mountains with tropical flowers spilling down their sides, vast plantations of sugar cane, long, sandy beaches.
Ramble through Old San Juan, down its ancient cobbled streets, past 400-year-old Spanish-siyle buildings. Visit El Morro, huge fortress that has stood guard over the harbor since 1533, and the 18th-century bastion of San Geronimo. Take a trip to El
Yunque — widely known as the rain forest — a true jungle of giant ferns and cedars, brilliant singing birds, wild orchids, splashing falls. And to San German, founded in 1512.
St. Lucia — Lush and mountainous with a polite, well-mannered volcano that bubbles gently, sulphur springs, splendid beaches.
St. Maarten — One-half Dutch, one-half French, Interesting are the picturesque ruins of the 17th century Fort Amsterdam. Visit tiny Saba, a nearby island, that consists largely of an extinct volcano that rises straight up out of the sea.
Trinidad — Fun-loving, song-happy Trinidad is a truly exotic place — a melting pot of races, religions, people. Birthplace of calypso songs and steel bands — best in the world. Don’t miss the fabulous Carnival here if you can make it.
See Port of Spain — one of the wildest and most colorful cities in the Caribbean with a dazzling variety of oriental bazaars, Hindu temples, Moslem mosques. Walk on Pitch Lake without sinking — a vast area of asphalt, nearly 300 feet deep. Take a ride over the beautiful Skyline drive.
Tobago — A beachcomber’s dream come true where you can laze and gaze on endless miles of white sandy beaches. Widely known as Robinson Crusoe’s Island.
Virgin Islands — Offer a wide variety of pleasures — free port shopping. Don’t miss St. Thomas, a pastel confusion of lacy balconied houses, narrow streets, brilliant foliage above a lively harbor. A “Little Switzerland” of terrific buys, such as watches, clocks,
14