Castles and cottages
Want to stay in a buccaneer’s castle? There are several. Excitingly recreated so that you can almost imagine you hear the rumbling laughter of friendly ghosts. There’s one such deluxe hangout — Bluebeard’s Castle, perched atop a high hill on St. Thomas. Another is Sam Lord’s Castle on Barbados. Built in 1830, it has been restored as a modern hotel with priceless furnishings dating back to the 1800’s.
You’ll find all kinds of places, to fit any taste and budget. Shiny, tail-towered hotels with lacy balconies that string like wedding cakes along the coast — or sit atop mountains — with breathtaking vistas of sea, sand and sky. Beautifully restored old sugar plantation Great Houses. Tiny quaint cottages and guest houses. Even a restored 17th Century Carmelite Convent.
You can choose to stay in a world-famous playground like Montego Bay or Ocho Rios in Jamaica, where you’ll rub elbows with movie stars, royalty and other VIP’s. Or a charming cottage tucked away among the hibiscus and bougainvillea — or set way out on an empty shore where the only sounds are the cry of the gulls and the decorous lap of the sea.
Of course, rates vary widely. During the winter season, hotel prices are generally at their highest,
especially in such popular centers as Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Nassau. Just to give you an idea of what you can expect, in ultramodern Montego Bay or Ocho Rios in Jamaica, it roughly costs $30 to $60 per person in the luxury hotels — with breakfast and dinner included. In the off-season, these same accommodations drop as much as 50%, running from $15 to $28 per person. Naturally, rates are lower at small guest houses, cottages and modest hotels — run from $8 to $18 per person during the winter — slide to $5 and $10 per person in the off-season.
One thing though. With so many people heading for the Caribbean these days summer and winter — make your reservations in advance. Your Pan Am Travel Agent will be an invaluable help. He’ll know all about rates, which hotels are booked to capacity, which are in the throes of renovation, and he’ll find the accommodations you want to fit your desires and bank account.
As a matter of fact, working through Pan Am, he can make reservations for you in seconds flat at almost any hotel, via PANAMAC®, Pan Am’s exciting, new computerized communication system.
Flying fish for dinner?
If you have adventurous taste buds, the Caribbean can be a memorable gastronomic experience. Any gourmet will feel as happy as a stuffed clam — sampling native specialties rich in flavor and aroma.
Where else can you order that moist, succulent delicacy— flying fish? Or eat oysters grown on trees?
Seafood is abundant and delicious with no end of variations. Langouste flambé (flaming rock lobster), Moro crab, a dozen different kinds of fish stew. Turtle steak. Conch fritters. A number of delightful interpretations of Paella — a delectable shrimp and rice combination.
7