Rum punches unlimited
And there’s lots more. Famous Jug-Jug, a holiday dish which is a mould of green peas, chopped ham and pork. Pastelitos — pastries filled with chicken or other meat. Roast suckling pig. Famous creole soups and curries. Many, many Dutch, Spanish, Oriental, Hungarian, Indian and Creole foods. Plus, of course, an infinite variety of fruits — fresh off trees.
If your taste insists on sticking to steaks, chops and such, you’ll find plenty of them, too. But you’ll add much to your holiday pleasure, if you let your appetite roam in a spirit of adventure.
Water is generally safe — and milk has been properly pasteurized in most hotels and restaurants — so you needn’t worry about them in the larger centers. In smaller or more remote areas, you can’t be sure, so drink bottled or boiled water.
Rum is the drink in the Caribbean (though of course everything else is available). There are many different rums — served in countless concoctions. Rum punches, swizzles, highballs without number.
Drink your rum straight — as the pirates did. Or on the rocks. It’s positively elegant. But be sure to try a Planter’s Punch. Among the cool drinks, nothing in the Caribbean has ever touched its palatability. The banana daiquiris are great too, as is a delectable Creole drink called Sangaree.
Snooze, swim, snorkel
You can spend your whole holiday on the beach. Sit in the sun. Sip rum. Snooze under the shade of a coconut palm. And enjoy the scenery.
The Caribbean has some of the loveliest beaches under the sun. Pink beaches. White beaches. Black beaches. Soft and shimmering. And you never took a dip in more beautiful waters. So bracing. Or saw so many different hues of blue in a single ocean — from palest turquoise to deepest blue.
The fishing is wonderful. The waters — especially in the Bahamas — teem with white and blue marlin, bonita and other finny fighters. You’ll find guides, boats, skippers, tackle wherever you go.
You can golf, play tennis or cricket, skin-dive, climb mountains. Water-skiing is perfect on island lagoons. The sailing and yachting couldn’t be better. Try some snorkeling too. You’ll see unbelievably beautiful coral reefs, formations, and schools of fish in a rainbow of colors.
And as a change of pace, you might like to go on some offbeat expeditions. Like shooting the rapids
8