SeaEscape Orlando
Central Florida’s newest attraction.
Departures Monday through Friday at 11 a.m., returning at 11 p.m.
It’s a fun-filled day of cruising. A party from morning til night. The M/S Scandinavian Sea departs from Port Canaveral for a cruise to nowhere.
SeaEscape Miami
Sailing from Miami to Grand Bahama aboard the M/S Scandinavian Sun.
Daily departures at 8 a.m., returning before midnight.
Want to stretch out your SeaEscape? Stay over in Grand Bahama for a day or two. The Scandinavian Sun sails to and from Grand Bahama every day, so if you want to, you can arrange to return to Miami at a later date. See your Travel Agent for hotel recommendations and reservations.
The pleasure of SeaEscape can be yours for just $39 per person. And children, when accompanied by a parent, are just $20 each for the Port Canaveral cruise (for ages 17 and under) and $35 each for the Miami cruise (for ages 12 and under). Prices include use of cabana facilities. Private cabins are available at $20 for the Port Canaveral cruise and $40 for the Miami cruise. Port charges are not included and are $5 for adults and $3 for children on the Port Canaveral cruise and $10 for adults and children on the Miami cruise.
This offer is good from March 1 through April 30, 1982. Your cruise must be booked and paid for prior to arrival in Florida.
This offer applies only to passengers paying normal published fares and traveling Pan Am round trip to Miami, Ft. Lauderdale/Hollywood, Orlando or Tampa/St. Pete (within the continental U.S.A.) from any point outside the state of Florida.
RESPONSIBILITY
Scandinavian World Cruises, the organization which provides the services specified in this brochure, its agents, officers and employees are not the agents or representatives of Pan American World Airways, Inc. (Pan Am). Pan Am assumes no liability for the acts or omissions of such entities and persons whether or not related to services described in this brochure. The sole responsibility of Pan Am is as an entity providing air transportation services. Such responsibility is defined in the passenger contract stated in its tickets and is limited to the time that a passenger is on board a Pan Am aircraft.
THIS EXCLUSIVE PAN AM OFFER MUST BE BOOKED AND PAID FOR PRIOR TO ARRIVAL IN FLORIDA. Offer is good March 1 through April 30,1982.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
2/82 Printed in U S A.