IT COSTS NO MORE WHEN YOU FEY WITH THE LEADER
THE ONLY U. S. Flag Carrier that can fly you to all 6 continents. Pan Am can fly you all the way Round The World.
First across Atlantic (49,000 crossings)
First across Pacific (30,000 crossings)
First throughout Latin America (37,000 Equator crossings)
First Around the World (2,000 trips)
THE LEADER in the development of low international fares and only airline offering all the advantages of its popular RAINBOW service, including the finest, fastest commercial airliners, at no more than ordinary Tourist Service ... across the Atlantic, Pacific, Equator and all the way Round the World.
THE PIONEER of the PAY LATER PLAN for travel — which now makes it possible for you to finance foreign travel just as you might the purchase of a car or major household appliance. Under this Plan you can budget your air transportation and part or all of your hotel accommodations, sightseeing and ground travel abroad — practically everything. What’s more, you pay as little as 10% down . . . and you are automatically insured for the balance.
PAN AMERICAN has carried more than 13 million passengers over a billion miles in safety and comfort . , . flying more people to and from the U. S. than any other airline . . . twice as many as all other U.S. airlines combined.
Pax AMERfCAX
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
LTaTa
Start Right Now. You can take advantage of Pan Am’s Extra City Bonus without delay. Because the precedent-breaking Pay Later Plan permits you to pay as little as 10% down and pay the balance in easy monthly amounts spread out over a year or more. No collateral, no complicated financing arrangements. The Plan can cover Clipper transportation alone or your entire Pan Am Holiday Tour, including connecting air travel in the U. S. A. or abroad.
SEE YOUR AUTHORIZED PAN AM TRAVEL AGENT
Wherever you plan to go on your Clipper trip you’ll want to consult your authorized Pan American Travel Agent. He can not only relieve you of many details and handle the bookings, accommodations, all on the Pay Later Plan if you wish, but he can help you plan an itinerary that will permit you to visit many extra cities for the same round trip fare by plotting your route to make the most of Pan Am’s wonderful "Extra City Bonus” Plan.
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
D R 355 1 OO
¡VISIT
ma
CITIES
ABROAD AT
NO
HIM
ERE
Pa\ Americm
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
CLIPPER
Fly Abroad by and Get This Budget-Stretching
” EXTRA CITY BOXES”
While Pan American can fly you direct to your destination abroad, it can also give you a big travel bonus by letting you visit Extra Cities at no extra fare. Only a truly global airline could make your travel dollar go so far. And Pan Am . . . which serves more than 80 countries and colonies . . . offers you such a variety of routings throughout Europe and the rest of the world . . . such a choice of departure and arrival points in the United States . . . that you get the advantage of an amazing number of stopover possibilities in Extra Cities.
Here’s How the
’’Extra City Bonus” Plan Works
First of all, decide your destination, then select other places you’d like to visit en route. Next, talk over your plans with your Travel Agent or nearest PA A office. They’ll gladly arrange your Clipper trip so that you can add visits in Extra Cities at no extra cost. You’ll pay only the Round Trip fare to a single destination, the most distant city on your trip.
Copyright, 1955, Pan American World Airways, Inc. Clipper Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Save on Low RAINBOW Fare — Take a Year or More to Pay
This "Extra City Bonus” is just one of the many advantages Pan Am offers you. For when you Go Places by Clipper you enjoy all the speed and dependability of the World’s Most Experienced Airline that carries more people to and from the United States than any other airline. And you save money, too. For Pan Am’s Rainbow, which makes it possible for everyone to enjoy a trip abroad, costs no more than ordinary Tourist service. And to top it all, you don’t have to pay cash for your trip or disturb your savings because of Pan Am’s convenient and very popular Pay Later Plan. (See back page)
Read the Facts Inside and Start Planning
Inside you’ll find some of the Extra Cities you can visit at no extra fare. The typical destinations mentioned suggest the wonderful money-saving Clipper travel bonus you can enjoy whenever you take advantage of Pan Am’s Extra City privilege. So — start planning your Clipper trip now to include visits at Extra Cities at no extra fare.