Tbf BETWEEN EUROPE and the GREAT NORTHWEST
(U. S. A. AND CANADA)
fktemjeifletd, cmtodabk u/ay!
Printed in U. S. A.
DR-253-100
luu ru SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
You’ll find his experience and first-hand knowledge invaluable. He knows the travel requirements of the countries you plan to visit and can help you get the necessary documents. What’s more, he can relieve you of many other details .. . make your bookings and reservations and arrange your stopovers, alternate routings, sightseeing, etc. Yet it costs you no more to take advantage of his counsel and services. On the contrary, his familiarity with the low-cost Tourist Service of Pan American and Northwest and other ways to help you keep within your budget can often save you money. So — for a more-satisfying, less expensive trip, see your Travel Agent soon.
NORTHWEST AIRLINES
Pas American World Airways
NORTHWEST AIRLINES
Pas Awrrlcas World Airways
FOR RELAXING
-fb{ dmbk-fkded
$fraberufteis alLtkt u/ai(!
COMFORT
Aboard the most luxurious planes in air transportation	FOR DEPENDABILITY AND BIG SAVINGS, TOO
service Pan American whisks you between New York and Europe and Northwest speeds you across the United States to and from New York. Yet the swift, superb service of the famed Double Decked Stratocruisers costs no more than other less spacious first class air services. But how you’ll notice the difference flying Stratocruisers all the way from Seattle or Milwaukee to Paris, for example. Or from London to Detroit . . . Minneapolis, or Spokane. Going and returning, you’ll fly across the United States on such flights as the west-bound Pacific Coast Express and the east-bound Manhattan Express. And, between New York and Europe, on the famous President, or, if you wish, the extra-fare President Special, the world’s most luxurious Air Travel.
Nothing can match the comfort and service efficiency of traveling Northwest with its enviable 26-year record inside the U.S.A., and Pan American, with its more than 40,000 transatlantic crossings. And, of course, you can save up to 10% on your regular Round Trip Fare, if you travel during the uncrowded fall-and-winter Thrift Season when you’ve a better choice of accommodations and hotel rates are lower. Save still more ... up to 30% . . . on the low-cost Tourist Service. The Rainbow, Pan Am’s Clipper Tourist Service, gives you the lowest fares ever across the Atlantic. And within the United States, too, you can enjoy Northwest’s Air Coach rates whether you're starting east from Seattle or Portland, from Detroit or Milwaukee ... or heading west for Minneapolis and St.
Paul, for Billings or Spokane.
These Stratocruiser flights feature delicious full-course meals. And crossing the Atlantic, you'll enjoy an unforgettable dinner prepared by world-famous Maxim’s of Paris; and even your cocktails are "on the house”.
And there's never any tipping.
Yesteryear’s travel was never like this. When stars blink goodnight your big soft chair leans way, way, back and you stretch out with pillow and blanket for cloud-high slumber. Or, at a slight extra charge, sleep your way across the Atlantic in a full-sized berth.
"Taking a promenade” is a good excuse for strolling down the spiral staircase to the Lower Deck Lounge.
It’s like an intimate, smartly appointed club . . . perfect for testing your linguistic skill as you get acquainted with fellow globetrotters over your favorite drink.
