Experience the Style and Charm of Great Britain
Get to Know Britain by Car.
Those in search of the real Britain should head for the countryside. Definitely, the best way to explore England, Scotland and Wales is by car. Ancient market towns, charming villages and splendid stately homes, those treasure houses of British heritage, dot the landscape and are easily accessible.
The British passion for gardens is well known and most palaces, castles and country houses, large and small, have a lovingly-tended garden to show off—there are walled gardens, rose gardens, Elizabethan knot gardens and topiary gardens. Some gardens are famous; such as, Sissinghurst in southeast England and Powis Castle Gardens In Wales.
Many of Scotland’s noble palaces, castles and country houses are this year marking the 400th anniversary of Mary, Queen of Scots, one of history’s most romantic and tragic figures. There will be exhibitions, festivals, medieval banquets and special tours at such places as Linlithgow Palace, where she was born, Stirling Castle, where she was crowned, and at many of the castles and houses in which she lived, was held captive, or just simply stayed a few nights.
Wales has more castles per square mile than anywhere else in Europe. Among them are Caernarfon in the north, where the investiture of Prince Charles as the Prince of Wales took place, Harlech on the west coast, and Caerphilly in the south, close to Cardiff, the Welsh capital.
The search for the real Britain might also include at least some of the many places, in town and country, associated with great literary figures. There’s the Bronte Parsonage Museum in the village of Haworth on the Yorkshire moors, Wordsworth’s cottage in the Lake District, Dylan Thomas’s boathouse in south Wales, Shakespeare’s Stratford-upon-Avon, Thomas Hardy Country in southern England, Robert Burns Country in western Scotland and Charles Dickens’s London.
And while you’re touring Britain, you’ll find a wide range of accommodations, from Miche-lin-starred country house hotels to family-run, bed-and-breakfast establishments.
For more information, plus free copies of brochures to help you learn more about your touring by car around Britain, contact the British Tourist Authority offices in New York, (212) 581-4700; Chicago, (312) 787-0490; Los Angeles, (213) 628-3525; and Dallas, (214) 720-4040.
Terms and Conditions
This Avis rates in this brochure are available only when you fly Pan Am across the Atlantic in either direction and may only be reserved in the United States.
The Avis-Pan Am car rental rates are only obtainable if reserved with Avis in the U.S.A. prior to departure.
Car reservations will only be confirmed by car group and not be made within a car group.
The rates include unlimited miles/kilometers, maintenance and oil. Rates also include automobile liability insurance in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the rental agreement. In the event of the car being involved in acolli-sion, Avis will assume the cost of damage except that the
renter will be required to pay an amount towards the cost of repair, which varies from country to country. This requirement will be waived if the renter elects to pay an additional Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) fee. Personal Accident Insurance (PAI) is also available for a nominal fee The rates do not include local sales tax, CDW, PAI or refuel-
ing service.
Prepayment for the car rental is not required. You pay directly to Avis at time of rental.
For payment other than by Avis-honored charge card, a deposit will be required at time of rental to cover anticipated rental charges, as well as local sales tax, CDW, PAI and
Don’t Delay—Reserve Today
Contact Your Travel Consultant who will arrange your Fly/Drive with Pan Am or call Pan Am toll-free at 1-800-221-1111
Your Travel Consultant
©1987 Avis Rent A Car System, Inc., Avis®

Avis Features GM Cars OPEL KADETT
refueling service. Any balance of deposit will be refunded at termination of rental.
Driver must have a valid Driver’s License in effect for at least one year and present it to Avis at commencement of rental. Renter's minimum age is 25 years.
Travel Agent Information
To access more information about the Avis/Pan Am Fly/Drive Program, code "Zl" in your CRT and access KEYWORD “PA”
Avis provides complete information and booking instructions for automated systems.
Printed in U.S.A
AVIS
ON THE ROAD In The United Kingdom
Sfili .H	yjyj
	Äwp'K iHÇU i
	m 1
V iwivnmj, • : « 1/1717“ •* 		 * • Ti.-—Jb	* :w? -
- .	' .SN-
•i«va*



1987 Fly/Drive Program
r7fOUtSJ Itineraries