Pan Am to the United Kingdom, Europe and the World
Take in the Real Britain in an Avis Car
Avis Makes It Easy to See the Britain You Want to See
Pan Am’s Non-Stop to the U.K. and Europe Is So Easy.
One Ticket—One Check-in
Travel with Pan Am on your next vacation and see how easy life can be. With one ticket, one check-in and one baggage claim convenience, you’ll find flying one of the most pleasant parts of your trip. And your connecting Pan Am flight Is never more than a few steps away with convenient connecting schedules so you can get where you want to go in less time. You can’t beat it.
747: The World’s Most Preferred Aircraft
Pan Am 747’s are the choice of experienced travelers the world over. You’ll flythem across the Atlantic to London and on selected long distance routes throughout our network.
Your Choice of Service
Enjoy the kind of attention to your needs that has long been a Pan Am tradition. A tradition
of service. Our flight crews know the quality of service you expect enroute and have made a tradition of providing it for more than 57 years. So you can be sure of superior service all the way.
Whether you prefer our coach service, which is perhaps one of the best buys In the skies, or the amenities of our Clipper® Class business section, or the luxury of our First Class Sleeperette® Service, you can be sure of luxury and comfort on your flight.
Clipper® Class, our private section business class, is quiet, restful. Ideal for relaxing or reviewing some last-minute details. Seating Is arranged in groups of two and you’re never more than one seat from the aisle. The menus feature exceptional entrees and cocktails, and stereo headsets are complimentary.
First Class Service features our new leather and sheepskin Sleeperette® Seat that is cushiony soft with a greater recline so you can stretch out to sleep or relax in the luxury of Pan Am’s spacious, tastefully appointed First Class Cabin.
Pan Am Service to London from 24 Cities in the U.S.
Pan Am provides direct service to London from seven major U.S. cities: Seattle, San Francisco, Chicago, Detroit, Miami, Los Angeles, Washington and New York, as well as connecting service from 17 cities direct to London from New York.
San Francisco
Direct Service to London via New York from:
Austin
Boston
Charlotte
Chicago
Cleveland	Nashville
Dallas/Ft Worth	Orlando
Houston	Philadelphia
Indianapolis	Pittsburgh
Raliegh/Durham San Antonio Tampa/St. Pete Washington, DC
Cincinnati
Expanded Service with Pan Am Express
With Pan Am Express, you can fly directly to Pan Am’s worldport at JFK from 14 major northeastern cities. There, you can connect quickly and easily with Pan Am’s flights to London and the rest of the world as well as selected destinations in the U.S.
1987 Fly/Drive Rates that Put You “On The Road.”
When you fly Pan Am to the United Kingdom, you qualify for special car rental rates. You can arrange for you r car as easily as you book you r airline seat.
The only thing you have to do is make your reservation for an Avis car before leaving the United States and, of course, relax and enjoy your Pan Am flight across the Atlantic. Rentals on this program may be made at any airport in the United Kingdom served by Pan Am, as well as any other Avis rental location in the United Kingdom.
How and When to Book your Avis Car:
ONE CALL DOES IT ALL
■	Your Avis car must be reserved through Pan Am no later than two days prior to departure.
■	When placing your reservation, be sure to ask for the United Kingdom “On The Road” Fly/Drive program.
■	As an extra bonus, Avis offers a FREE Personally Yours Itinerary. Make sure you reserve It 14 days in advance.
United Kingdom Rates (Guaranteed in Pounds Sterling)					
Rate Code: CR		5,6 or 7 Days		Additional Days	
Car Group	Car Make	Pounds	US$	Pounds	US$
A	Ford Fiesta 1.0	£105	$158	E15	$23
B	Ford Escort 1.3	140	210	20	30
C	Ford Sierra 1.8	154	231	22	33
D	Ford Orion 1.6 (A)	168	252	24	36
E	Ford Sierra 1.8 (SW)	217	326	31	47
F	Ford Granada 2.0 Ghia (A)	273	410	39	59
G	Ford Granada 2.8 Ghia (A)	350	525	50	75
Avis features GM/Opel cars
1E = US $1.50, January 19,1987 (A) Automatic T ransmission (SW) Station Wagon
Rates valid April 1,1987-October 31,1987 Rates quoted in Pounds Sterling. U.S. dollar rates shown for GUIDANCE ONLY.
Rates do not include Collision Damage Waiver (CDW), Personal Accident Insurance (PAI), local sales tax (15%), any applicable one-way service fee or refueling service charge.
The Avis Fleet is One of the Largest in Europe to Serve Your Travel Needs.
FORD SIERRA Number of Doors: 4, Number of Seats: 4/5 Trunk Space: 12.0 cu. ft.; 3/4 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 13.2 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 22 MPG
FORD SIERRA Number of Doors: 5, Number of Seats: 4/5 fSWl	Trunk Space: 52 cu. ft.; 6/7 suitcases
'	'	Fuel Capacity: 15.6 U.S. gallons
Approximate Fuel Consumption: 22 MPG
FORD	Number of Doors: 4, Number of Seats: 5
GRANADA Trunk Space: 14.3 cu. ft.; 4/5 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 7.5 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 19 MPG
FORD FIESTA Number of Doors: 2, Number of Seats: 4 Trunk Space: 7.0 cu. ft.; 2/3 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 8.5 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 35 MPG
FORD	Number of Doors: 4, Number of Seats: 4
ESCORT	Trunk Space: 11.0 cu. ft.; 3 suitcases
Fuel Capacity: 10.5 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 27 MPG
Personally Yours helps make the most out of your time in the United Kingdom!
Personally Yours is a remarkable new customized travel planning service offered FREE to Avis Rent A Car customers in the United Kingdom.
Whether you are fascinated by British folklore or enraptured by the castles and palaces in the United Kingdom, Personally Yours gives a complete touring itinerary individually tailored to your own special interests.
Your Personally Yours Customized Itinerary:
Just tell us which two categories you are most interested in out of the 8 categories in the United Kingdom. We enter this information into our computer along with data on the length of your visit. You receive a customized itinerary and a detailed guide to popular attractions in your selected categories.
The itinerary also suggests outstanding inns, hotels and restaurants en route.
See the special attractions and features
only the natives would know
about.
AVIS

Choose from the 8 interest areas in the United Kingdom:
•	Highlights of the United Kingdom: includes all the most popular sights in the country.
•	Undiscovered United Kingdom: with its “insider’s insight" is a pleasant surprise, especially if you are revisiting the country.
•	History of United Kingdom: probes the background and the past to what you will see enroute.
•	Castles and Palaces: includes the region’s most interesting and historic buildings.
•	Antiques: features the country’s best antique shopping prepared by experts.
•	Parks and Gardens: is a must for nature lovers and gardeners.
•	Museums: includes some of the world’s most famous museums.
•	Shopping and Crafts: provides all the information necessary to find those "buys” the U.K. is noted for.
Here’s how to get a Free Personally Yours Computer-Generated Itinerary:
Personally Yours is offered FREE to you when you rent from Avis while visiting the United Kingdom. • Contact your travel agent or call Avis Reservations Office at 1-800-331-1084.
• After providing the reservation information, simply request a Personally Yours itinerary. You will need to provide the following information: • Your name, address & telephone number. • Name of accompanying traveler, where applicable. (Itinerary can be personalized with two travelers’ names.)
• The date rental Is to begin, renting location and length of rental. Specify one or two interests of your choice in the U. K.