The Empire State and United Nations Buildings . . . pride of New York City, wonders to all who see them.
THE
United tales
-Alask
j
•211»
<r:m
'¿¡mu
13332*»
etween the coastlines of this vast land lie 3000 miles of mighty mountains, forests, lakes and plains whose scenic splendor alone is worth traveling far to see. Whether you want modern, busy cities — or quiet country towns — it has a vacation spot to suit your every fancy.
On the East coast there’s big, bustling New York, a Pan American “gateway” city, where more than 7,000,000 people live amid a profusion of towering skyscrapers, flashing lights and dashing taxi-cabs. For genuine pulse-pounding excitement, you shouldn’t miss New York.
Near the mouth of the Mississippi River stands famed and fabled New Orleans, another “gateway” city. Its French Quarter, its Mardi Gras, its levees, and charming suburban plantations make it unique among American cities. And in sunny, sub-tropical Florida, there’s Miami — whose history justifies the name of “the magic city”.
If you enter or leave the United States by way of the Pacific Coast you’ll have a chance to get acquainted with either San Francisco, Seattle, Portland or Los Angeles and its Hollywood.
Seattle is surrounded by some of the most magnificent scenery in America. If you’re a fisherman you’ll find the salmon in nearby waters a good match for your skill. You can still see evidences of the years when San Francisco was the brash and brawling youngster of Gold Rush fame. And a favorite holiday haven for one and all is Los Angeles — the largest and most modern city on the U. S. west coast.
Alaska stands astride the Arctic circle like a great, vigorous Northern giant. Rugged, majestic, unspoiled . . . it’s a sportsman’s paradise in any season. You’ll never forget the shining brilliance of the Aurora Rorealis ... or the towering peaks of Mt. McKinley. And in wonderful contrast to this primitive scenic beauty, you’ll find up-to-date cities that thrive on the lumber, fishing, and mining industries of this rich young land.