!4t«
W~? :
JD. ^ ,
A I


Pi	■	y	'	n	p
		LY.		J	u
m
rn
r\

rn
r\
kJ
A	NEWER -TO-BE-FORGOTTENFLIEHT
□ n boand a
CD
.□as a
a
-L
(—!
The takeoff on the eastbound flight is from Santiago, capital of Chile, located 116 miles inland from the port of Valparaiso. Santiago has a population of 750,000. It stands on a wide plain 1,700 feet above the sea and is commonly regarded as one of the most beautifully situated of all the South America cities.
Leaving Santiago the giant airliner climbs steadily to approximately 14,000 feet to cross the Andes via the Uspa-llata Pass, just to the South of magnificent Mount Aconcagua, (altitude 22,850 feet) the highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere. Within the shadow of the famous “Christ of the Andes” lies the Special Weather Observatory which, by means of radio, guards the planes in their crossings. This unique and magnificently equipped meteorological station is served by especially trained observers who report weather conditions both at the crest of the Continental Divide and for miles in either direction, to Panagra’s offices in Santiago, Chile, and in Mendoza, Argentina, as well as to the airliners en route between the two cities. Similarly equipped weather stations are located in Santiago and Mendoza and are in constant communication by radio with planes flying in that territory. Shortly after passing the Christ of the Andes to the East, the descent is begun, and approximately one hour from the time of departure from Santiago landing is made in Mendoza, center of Argentina’s famous vineyard country. Only 188.5 air miles east of Santiago, but a different atmosphere altogether. Mendoza is 2,370 feet above sea level, situated within sight
m n
THE CHRIST OF THE ANDES AND THE METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATORY
of the snow-covered peaks, and has a population of 79,000. It is frequently called the “Garden of the Andes” and travelers will find a drive through the surrounding country well worth while.
Before taking off from either Santiago or Mendoza the pilot receives complete information regarding weather conditions for the entire crossing of the Andes from the three especially equipped weather stations, and if there is the slightest doubt as to the possibility of weather conditions making the flight unadvisable, no attempt is made to start until more favorable conditions are reported.
The confortable airliners used on the crossings are twin-motored Douglas DC-2’s, which are standard equipment on TWA, American Airlines, Eastern Air Lines, KLM, Swissair, and many other famous European and United States airlines, as well as on other routes of Pan American Airways System. These planes are equipped with automatically controlled heating and ventilating systems which maintain confortable cabin temperature regardless of outside conditions. Besides all modern instruments for air navigation, each plane is equipped with an “automatic pilot” and a two-way radio telegraph. The competent and experienced crew is composed of a veteran Captain, Junior-Pilot-Radio Operator and Purser. So that the passengers may enjoy their trip with serenity, each seat is supplied with individual oxygen valve and hose, leading to a main oxygen tank. This tank contains sufficient oxygen for approximately five hours of high altitude flight for the entire list of passengers, although the average person does not require oxygen during a normal flight across the Andes. A separate oxygen tank is provided for the crew.
The scheduled time for the Andes crossing in Panagra D'ouglas airliners is approximately one hour, only twenty minutes of which is normally at high altitude. The other forty minutes are spent in making a gradual ascent and descent in order to insure comfort for the most sensitive passenger. In contrast the overland trip under the best conditions requires eighteen hours, twelve of which are spent at high altitude. It has been proved that considerable time spent at high altitudes exhausts the reserve oxygen in the blood especially since during such protracted periods it is impossible to avoid making a certain minimum of physical exertion moving around and in other ways consuming oxygen in the blood. The loss of oxygen from the blood is the cause of the unpleasant feelings some people experience at altitu-
des. No exertion at all is required on board the plane as one can remain seated quite still and comfortable for little more than half an hour required to fly over the highest part of the “Hump”.
The question is often raised regarding the effects of altitude on one’s health. Doctors are, in the majority of cases, as little informed about air travel as anyone who has never experienced this mode of travel, and different doctors will give entirely different answers to this questions, Numerous cases have come to our attention where passengers have been warned not to fly over 5,000 feet, but in those
PLAZA OF THE CONGRESS, BUENOS AIRES
cases where they have ignored these warnings we have yet to hear of a single case where harmful effects have resulted. Babies less than three weeks old, persons in all stages of good and bad health and men and women over ninety years of age have made Andes crossings by air in all sorts of weather, and very few have failed to be highly enthusiastic about this very interesting trip. Claudia Cranston, well known writer of travel articles for “Good Housekeeping” magazine, in her article “Wings” in the November 1935 issue expressed herself as desirous to fly several times more over the Andes. Numerous other enthusiastic examples could be given, since the passenger lists of nearly every crossing include tourists and business men, bankers and bakers, diplomats and doctors, women and children, famous writers and ordinary readers like you and me. Up to February 1936, more than 10,000 passengers had been carried by air on over 2,000 crossings over the Andes and the numbers of these enthusiastic air travellers are increasing daily.
After taking off from Mendoza, the flight is in a straight* line for 600 miles over the famous Argentine Pampas to Buenos Aires. The pampas begin inmediately at Mendoza, and are so flat that people on the ground at any point can look for miles in all directions. There are no other obstructions than a few buildings between them and the far horizon. One can look down on thousands of cattle grazing peacefully as far as the eye can reach and often a flock of gorgeous pink flamingoes rises from beneath our wings, startled by the roar of our powerful motors.
The city of Buenos Aires stands at the head of a great ocean trade route and* is the heart of the Republic of Argentina. The railways to the interior converge upon Buenos Aires, which is probably as well served by. all means of transportation (air, rail or water) as any other city in the world. It is the capital of Argentina, the largest city in the Southern Hemisphere (population 2,500,000) and ranks sixth in magnitude among the cities of the world. It is often said that the name “Buenos Aires” conveys a well founded allusion to is healthy situation. Its many parks and plazas, its streets laid out on the rectangular plan are magnificent. Its shops and subways, parks and residential districts equal those of any other city in the world.
This extraordinary flight, unequalled anywhere, is certainly one of the never to be forgotten experiences about which Round South America air travellers continually tell the folks back home. Those who have the time for more leisurely journeys by steamer to the Argentine and Chile find this five hour transcontinental flight of the greatest advantage after a long sea journey. It is then that one is glad to be able to spend additional days in Santiago or Buenos Aires before turning homeward again. On Round South America steamer tours, tickets between Valparaiso and Buenos Aires are interchangeable for air or rail at no difference in fare, but one should make reservations for the flight before leaving the United States in order not to be disappointed due to capacity bookings. Trunks and other heavy baggage can be transferred either by air or rail and all shipping details are taken care of without inconvenience to passengers. Special rates are available for baggage shipped by plane subject to prior preference for full paid load.
Do not hesitate to call on any agent or office of Panagra for further details, tariffs and itineraries on this, the finest scenic flight in America.
^ ina
VALPARAISO
Slimache Quilpue.
dlPlaci"? o i 6abuco\^
wfc
} ° ■
Ö