MUSIC. .. Radio Pakistan, which is non-commercial, devotes a high proportion of its program hours to both the classical and folk music of Pakistan.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . Photographic equipment, including cameras and still and movie film, black-and-white and color film, may be bought but not readily, and prices are higher than in America. Color and movie films are sent abroad for processing; 24-hour local service on black-and-white film. Inquire at your hotel or Pan American office for recommended camera stores.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS.. . Night clubs as we know them, are not found in Pakistan. However, all the leading hotels have Western-type barrooms and cabarets. The floor shows of the Beach, Luxury, Métropole, Palace and others are fair.
RELIGION. . . The majority of the people are Moslem. Others are Christian Hindus and Zoroastrians. Most faiths have established places of worship in Karachi and the principal cities of Pakistan. There is, of course, complete freedom of worship in Pakistan.
RESTAURANTS. . . The leading Karachi hotels have dining rooms. It is recommended that tourists dine at their hotel. Shezan, a new air-conditioned restaurant, is also recommended. Chinese restaurants are available for Chinese specialties.
SHOPS AND STORES ... In Karachi the shops around the Metro-pole Hotel offer all varieties of goods. Elphinston Street is also a big shopping center. Prices on some items are high because of restricted imports.
SPECTATOR SPORTS.. . Hockey and football (soccer), are popular national games. Tournaments are held in the big cities. Cricket is also played in winter. Horse racing on the week ends in winter season in Karachi and Lahore with pari-mutuel betting.
SPORTS. . . Tennis facilities are available at clubs for members and their guests. There are numerous places for fishing and hunting. Pakistan offers some of the finest deep-sea fishing found anywhere. Many clubs for football and hockey.
TIME. .. Time in Karachi and West Pakistan is 10 hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time. East Pakistan time is 11 hours later.
TIPPING... 10 per cent of the bill is the usual tip.
TRANSPORTATION. . . State-owned railroads in both West and East Pakistan and good air services provide access to most of the principal cities. Much of the track is 5'6" gauge, widest in use anywhere. For local transportation, taxis, buses, tungas (horse and carriage) and rented automobiles are available as are economical auto ^ rickshaws and baby taxis.
WATER. . . Not safe to drink. Use special water flask in your hotel room for drinking and brushing teeth.
WHAT TO BUY.. . Ivory articles are admired for their beauty and delicacy; products of papier mâché and pieces of embroidery, brocades, fur caps, Baluchistan carpets, Sindhi glass-work and other hand-made goods. Visitors should see the sales and display centers at