HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, about 29% hours elapsed time from New York. Karachi is on Pan American’s Round-the-World route. By ship, about 23 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS ... Throughout Pakistan will be found a number of good hotels in most of the leading cities, such as Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Rawalpindi. In Karachi the following hotels are recommended: the Metropole, the Beach Luxury, the Palace and the Columbus Hotel. All of these hotels have orchestras and bars. Year around rates vary from $8 to $13 per day, American Plan.
ARTS ... National Museum, Karachi. The real center of art, however, is perhaps Lahore, where the Museum, Chunghtai’s Studio, School of Modern Art and several other institutions have valuable collections.
BANKS • • • There are numerous international banks in Karachi. Some of them are American Express Company, Lloyd’s Bank, Bank of India, Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China and the Netherlands Trading Society. Exchange facilities are provided by the leading hotels.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . March 23, Republic Day; Good Friday; April 26, Jumat-ul-Wida; May 2 and 3, Id-ul-Fitr; lune 30, Bank Holiday; luly 9 and 10, Id-ul-Azha (Festival of Sacrifice); August 6 and 7, Muharram; August 14, Pakistan Day; August 18, Janam Ashtami; September 11, Death Anniversay of Quaid-i-Azam; October 2, Dussehra; October 7, Id-e-Milad-un-Nabi (Prophet’s Birthday); December 25, Christmas and Quaid-i-Azam’s Birthday; December 31, Bank Holiday.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . Pakistan and British-named cigarettes and tobacco are plentiful, but American brands are somewhat more difficult to obtain. American cigarettes cost $5 a carton when available.
CLIMATE . . . East Pakistan from November to mid-March is generally delightfully cool with low humidity and little rain. The rest of the year generally has higher humidity and temperatures. Mean temperature in cold months is 60 degrees and in the hot season 83 degrees. West Pakistan, except for the coastal strip of Sind, is subject to extremes from freezing night temperatures in lanuary and February to the 70’s in the daytime, making a very healthy winter climate. In summer, the days can be very hot, though the nights generally are cool. Karachi enjoys a pleasant climate with invigorating sea breezes except for months April, May, June and October.
CLUBS... In Karachi, Sind Club, Rotary International Club, Lions Club International, Gymkhana, Boat Club and Race Club. Inquire locally.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS .. . Shoes or sandals should be taken off before entering a mosque. Don’t disapprove if men do not take off their Pakistani caps in social gatherings, as it is not customary to do so.
COMMUNICATIONS ... Direct radio-telegram and radio-telephone service with nearly the whole world is available. Airmail letter