miles, is Cape Monz. Boat transportation and rental automobiles are available for these sightseeing trips.
Four and a half miles from Manora is Sandspit, accessible by boat up the creek, at this point separated from the sea by a narrow strip of beach. Spend a day there. Another such holiday resort is Hawk’s Bay, about 12 miles from Karachi. Manghopir (11 miles north from Karachi), well-known shrine of a saint, is built on a rock and is famous for its hot sulphur springs. Children are especially interested in a tank that is full of crocodiles bred from two originally tamed by the saint. A trip to Bund Murad Khan is good for lovers of fish and sport. Another place worth visiting is Thatta, 64 miles from Karachi, full of historic ruins of Mogul and pre-Mogul period.
Lahore... Roughly 4 hours by air from Karachi, Lahore is the second largest city of Pakistan, with a population slightly over 1 million. It is the cultural and academic center of Pakistan, the location of over 40 colleges and institutions, including Punjab Uriiversity. One of Lahore’s great treasures is the exquisite Shalimar Gardens, a masterpiece of the great Mogul Emperor, Shah Jahan, who was also responsible for the Taj Mahal. The beautiful tomb of Jahangir, the father of Shah Jahan, is also well worth a visit.
The famous Badshahi (Royal) Mosque, one of the largest mosques in the world, is also located in Lahore. Among the many monuments of interest you’ll see a plaque in the office of the Civil and Military Gazette, on the Mall, recording the fact that Rudyard Kipling once worked there. Kim’s gun, Zam Zama, still stands outside the Museum where Kipling’s father was curator.
Lahore is where Pakistan’s film studios are, and it is the center for wrestling, a popular sport here. The city is at its best during the winter season, October to March.
Ancient Cities . . . Visitors should not miss seeing the archaeological excavations of Mohenjo-Daro in Sind and Harappa in the Indus Valley, in Punjab Province, dating to about 3,000 b.c., and other places of historical interest, such as Taxila in the Punjab and Bhamb-hore in Sind, and the famous Khyber Pass in the North.
East Pakistan. . . Principal places of interest: Sylhet is headquarters of the tea-growing area. Dacca, the capital, historically known for its silk and Dacca cotton muslin, has many historical monuments, including the Lai Bagh Fort, Bibi Pari’s tomb, Bara Katra, Husani Dalan, Churihata Mosque, Satgumbad (seven domes) Mosque and Dhakeswari Temple, as well as modern structures and interesting museums. Places of archaeological interest include Mahasthan Garh, Rajshahi and Mainamati. The scenic Chittagong Hill Tracts is a region of picturesque towns, thick forest and wild animals and the quiet seaside resort, Cox’s Bazaar.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... There are several travel agencies in Karachi and a Pan American office in the Metropole Hotel (Tel. 50281). In Lahore contact the Public Relations Department of North Western Railways. Consulate General of Pakistan is located at 12 East 65th Street, New York.