postage is Rs. 1-4-0, or about 25 cents, per half ounce to the United States.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the Pakistani rupee, worth 21 cents United States per rupee. There are 16 annas in a rupee.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ... A passport, properly visaed, is required. Certificates of smallpox vaccination and inoculation against cholera are required. Yellow fever inoculation certificate required if you are coming from a yellow fever area. Bona fide baggage of a passenger is exempt from duty when it accompanies the passenger. No duty is charged on 200 cigarettes and jewelry up to Rs 5,000 (about $1,000). There is no limitation on cosmetics and such things so long as they are within reasonable limits. Limit of £10 Sterling and Rs. 2,000 Pakistan currency.
DRUG STORES ... American-type drug stores are not generally found in Pakistan. Chemists, druggists and pharmacists are found in all the shopping and business centers and in most of the hotels. American products are very scarce and very expensive.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... In Karachi, 220 volts, 50 cycles. Alternating and direct current are found in different parts of Pakistan.
FAUNA ... The Zoo Gardens on Garden Road, near Karachi, present a picturesque scene.
FOOD . . . Pakistanis are fond of spicy but tasty food. There are numerous varieties of curries, pulaos (specially cooked meat and rice), and kebabs (fried and boiled meat), shami kebab (fried meat cakes). Kofta (meat balls) murgh-i-mussalam (stuffed fried chicken); and shahi turke (sweetbreads cooked in milk and honey) are a “must.” Milk is available in Karachi but should be boiled.
LANGUAGE ... English is used extensively in Government and generally in commerce and is also widely understood and spoken throughout Pakistan. Other languages widely used are Urdu, Bengali, Pushtu, Gujrati, Punjabi, Hindi and Baluchi.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING... Laundries and dry cleaners are available almost everywhere, but quality of work is poor. Home service is also easily obtained.
LIQUOR. . . In the main centers of Pakistan many foreign brands of liquor are available, but expensive. However, few Moslems drink, and it is the generally accepted custom among foreigners to abstain until sundown.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . .. Good doctors and surgeons. Fully equipped hospitals are to be found in all the leading cities. English is understood by hospital staffs. There is a good Seventh Day Adventist American hospital in Karachi. Holy Family Hospital run by American Medical Mission Sisters has hospitals in Karachi, Rawalpindi and Dacca.
MOTION PICTURES. . . There are a few movie theaters showing both American and English films. Two film studios are in operation in Lahore. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting produces both cultural and documentary films for release at home and abroad.