PLANNING YOUR ITINERARY
If you are planning an extensive business tour of the United States, it is a good idea to make plans well in advance. Even though commercial transportation facilities in the States are excellent, it is best to allow more time between appointments than you might for a similar trip at home.
Be sure to investigate the possibilities of Pan Am's Extra Cities Bonus Plan during the early stages of your planning. Under this plan, you may choose from a number of stopover possibilities en route to or from your ultimate destination at no extra air fare. For example, you can turn a trip to Chicago into a multiple-city tour for the price of a single round trip ticket.
Here’s how the Extra Cities Plan works: Determine the farthest point you plan to reach on your trip; then select stops along the way. On most round trips, you may go by one route, and return by another, taking in many other cities under your round trip fare. You'll also find the Extra Cities Bonus Plan is flexible enough to allow for itinerary revision en route, should the need arise. Before you start setting up your business appointments in the United States, go over your itinerary with your Authorized Travel Agent or Pan Am office.
Consider holidays carefully — national, regional and state events. If not anticipated, they can set up roadblocks in the best-planned business timetable. Nationally recognized holidays are New Year's Day (January 1), Washington’s Birthday (February 22), Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in September), Veteran’s Day (November 11), Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) and Christmas Day (December 25). In addition, certain other holidays are observed on a local or statewide basis; some offices may be open, but banks and public facilities are closed. Full information is contained in Pan Am’s comprehensive 544-page guide book, New Horizons® USA. Check it when working out your itinerary.
The more specific you can be about what companies and executives you expect to contact in the United States, the less time you’ll waste while there. Through World-Wide Marketing Service, the world’s
3