up this helpful hard-cover book at a nearby Pan Am office, Authorized Travel Agent or bookstore at a nominal cost,
The Pan Am “Planning Guide to Travel in the U.S.A.,” available from your Travel Agent or Pan Am office, contains practical hints on getting around by automobile, train, bus or plane. With a helpful pleasure-plotting map and a useful section on annual events, this 28-page booklet will help you get the most enjoyment from your leisure hours. And if you plan to do some business traveling by automobile, ¡twill give you full details on car rental plans, routes, licensing arrangements and where to get help finding your way.
Your Pan Am office can also arrange for you to receive its free monthly “Clipper Cargo Horizons" trade news. Published in six languages — English, Spanish, French, German, Italian and Japanese — and read by 176,500 businessmen around the world, each issue of “Horizons" spotlights overseas economic opportunities, alerts you to new markets, new suppliers. And if you wish, your product or needs will be advertised in the U.S. edition — without charge — in the classified listing of marketing opportunities. More than 107,000 business contacts have resulted from these listings.
OTHER SOURCES OF HELP
Most nations have foreign trade experts at each of their field offices in the United States who maintain close contact with their respective Embassies and Consulates. In addition to offering on-the-spot official help for you, these offices frequently issue reports that can help you keep informed on current trade conditions.
The U.S. Department of Commerce is the principal agency for assisting businessmen. It issues informative publications and reports regularly, to help keep you current on local trade conditions. In addition, the Chambers of Commerce in the various states are willing to provide you with up-to-date, accurate marketing information. You will find that printed material containing marketing profiles and other facts you want to know is available in abun-
14