by steamer up the Rhine to Coblenz, Wiesbaden; then on to Frankfurt and Heidelberg. A Black Forest trip follows . . . down to Lucerne, Switzerland, where you’ll follow the Grand Alpine Tour route through Wm. Tell country, Furka and Grimsel Passes, and the Rhone Glacier. The next leg takes you from glacier to sunny Venice, over the Bridge of Sighs, past the Doges Palace in a gondola. In Renaissance Florence, you’ll visit the massive cathedral, II Duomo, the celebrated Uffizi and Pitti art treasuries. Then South again, through the hill towns of Perugia and Assisi, to the “Eternal City,” Rome, and St. Peter’s, the Vatican, Catacomb and Colosseum. Next you’ll spend three days in the shadow of smouldering Vesuvius, seeing Naples, Pompeii, the scenic Amalfi Drive, Sorrento and the Isle of Capri. Then up the west coast of Italy, via Pisa and its famous Leaning Tower, to Genoa, San Remo and the sunny Italian Riviera, and across the French border to Nice, and over the Grand Corniche Riviera Road to Monte Carlo, Monaco — and by special excursion, the perfume city of Grasse. At last you head North by the Rhone Valley, through Burgundy by train to Paris and three glorious days in the “pleasure capital” of Europe . . . the Louvre, Notre Dame, the gay Latin Quarter, Montmartre. After an excursion to the beautiful palace gardens of Versailles, you say farewell to a wonderful holiday, via Pan Am Clipper to home.
From New York From Philadelphia
Inclusive Tour Cash Price*................... $977**	$988
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.................... 98	99
20 Monthly Payments............................ 51	52
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See hack cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
5 Countries
from $85 down
A “ turnpike” cruise — where you really see the sights close up! After a fast Clipper flight to London, you’ll enjoy four days of sightseeing in and around the city, including a half-day
excursion to Hampton Court and Windsor Castle. Then across the channel by steamer to the Belgian coast, and the resort town of Ostend — where you’ll spend an evening in the Casino. Next you’ll take an autobahn tour down to Luxembourg via Brussels and Namur . . . and over the French border to Nancy . . . South through the Vosges Mts., Bussang Pass, Mulhouse and Basle to Lucerne, Switzerland and a day of leisure in this most beautifully situated of all the lovely Swiss towns. From Lucerne, you’ll cross the Alps via Innsbruck and the Brenner Pass into Italy . . . through the winter sport country around Cortina, through Treviso to Venice for sightseeing . . . St. Mark’s, the Doges Palace, Bridge of Sighs, an afternoon of leisure or a visit to fashionable Lido beach. Next you’ll motor southwest through Poretta Pass to Florence, Queen City of the Renaissance . . . with its celebrated bronze Baptistry Gates by Ghiberti, the art treasurehouse of Ufhzi, and the Medici Tombs by Michelangelo. Then south again to Rome, via Siena and Orvieto, with a full day of conducted tours in the “Eternal City,” followed by a motor trip to Naples, the ruins of Pompeii, Sorrento. Next up the West Coast, past the Leaning Tower of Pisa to Milan, and on over the Simplon Pass into France’s beautiful Rhone Valley. Northward then to Paris, with sightseeing tours of Geneva, LacLeman, Autun and Fontainebleau en route. Three days in Paris climax your tour, including a half-day guided visit to the principal sights and a special excursion to the Gardens of Versailles . . . plus plenty of time for your own shopping and entertainment projects.
From New York From Washington
Inclusive Tour Cash Price*....................   $846**	$868
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 85	87
20 Monthly Payments.............................. 45	46
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
9