Tour the city and suburbs, marvel at the beauty of the modern skyscrapers and lovely homes. Then on to Rio, with its beautiful harbor dotted with small islands — striking against the ultramarine blue of the South Atlantic. Tour the city, drive along the sun-splashed beaches, take the cable-car to the peak of Sugar Loaf Mountain. You’ll have four days to see and do everything you wish in Brazil’s beautiful capital. Then home by Clipper, with perhaps a stop-over at Caracas, Port-of-Spain or San Juan.
From New York From Los Angeles
Inclusive Tour Cash Price............... $1050**	$1100
Pay Later Plan Down Payment............. 105	110
20 Monthly Payments..................... 55	58
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
PERU/BOLIVIA
from $101 down
From equatorial Panama to snow-capped Andes...“New Spain” to pre-Columbian Inca land ... a tour in contrasts, beginning by comfortable Pan Am Clipper flight to Panama over direct Pan American routes, where a morning motor tour of the Canal Zone takes you to see Miraflores Locks in operation. You’ll cross the Canal and return by ferry on Balboa Harbor; afternoon free for bathing, shopping or additional sightseeing. Arrive next morning in cool, comfortable Quito, Ecuador, where you’ll stay at the new Humboldt Hotel. A 3-hour drive through the city includes Panecillo, for a breath-taking view, the Colonial section, ancient churches and handicraft shops. On to Lima, Peru, one-time capital of all Spanish America, where you’ll spend two full days exploring the attractions of the “City of Kings,” including the “Inca ruins trip” to the famous ruins of Pachacamac, a sacred place for pilgrimages during the great pre-Inca civilization (600 to 900 A.D.). Then over the snow-capped Andes to Cuzco, Inca
capital in the days before the Spanish occupation. You’ll encounter a charming blend of Inca and Spanish civilizations . . . visit the Inca fortress of Sacsahuaman, the great amphitheatre at Kkencco and Tampumachay. By rail across the Andes (at La Raya, alt. 14,153 feet) to Puno, where an overnight lake steamer trip takes you across the world’s highest navigable body of water, Lake Titicaca, into Bolivia, arriving at Guaqui. A three-hour train ride brings you to La Paz, Bolivia’s capital city. One of the features of your stay in this beautiful city will be a view of snow-capped Mt. Illimani. A half-day excursion to Mount Chacaltaya, world’s highest ski resort, is a fascinating trip, although skiing at such altitudes is strenuous for those not accustomed to the rarefied atmosphere. A scenic flight to Arequipa, Peru, city of perpetual sunshine. Most of the buildings in this fascinating city are of white or pink volcanic rock. During your stay, you’ll enjoy a tour of the city and its year-round-blooming gardens, a motor trip to the nearby resort city of Yura, famous for medicinal baths. Then homeward by Pan Am Clipper.
From New York From Los Angeles
Inclusive Tour Cash Price............. $1003**	$1056
Pay Later Plan Down Payment........... 101	106
20 Monthly Payments................... 53	55
WINGS AROUND
THE CONTINENT
from $94 down
A full Latin American circle tour in under 3 weeks . . . beginning by Pan Am flight, across the blue Caribbean to Panama City. Explore old Panama, marvel at the engineering feat of
28