Arch of Triumph. Your nights are “on the town” in Europe’s pleasure capital. Finally you fly on to the British Isles and London — where you’ll climb the historic Tower, tour Westminster Abbey, St. Paul’s and other famous landmarks.
From New York From Boston
Inclusive Tour Cash Price*..................... $721**	$712
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 73	72
20 Monthly Payments.............................. 39	38
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
17 days
FRANCE / BELGIUM HOLLAND/ ENGLAND
from $66 down
A compact tour of the major Western European capitals — beginning with five full days of sightseeing, shopping and continental nightlife in Paris, world center of fashion and gaiety. You’ll visit all the major attractions, the Louvre, Notre Dame, the Arch of Triumph; the Sorbonne and other cultural centers; the gay Latin Quarter and Montmartre. And you’ll make a speciaj excursion to the beautiful Gardens of Versailles. Then off by rail to Brussels, Belgium’s thriving capital and World’s Fair site — with its splendid 15th century Town Hall and Guild Houses, and the King’s Palace. From
Brussels, you’ll cross over to the Netherlands, to Amsterdam famous for its tulips and its diamonds and the Isle of Marken where the old folk dress is still worn. After a brief air trip to London, you’ll have five days in which to explore the “merrie olde” parts of England—London itself, a motor trip down to Oxford, Stratford-on-Avon, the “Shakespeare Country” and Warwick Castle — before your swift and comfortable return via Pan Am, “World’s Most Experienced Airline.”
From West From New York Coast Cities
Inclusive Tour Cash Price*..................... $647**	$845
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 66	85
20 Monthly Payments.............................. 35	45
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
17 days
SIX COUNTRIES OF EUROPE
from $72 down
After a restful overnight flight by Clipper, you’ll motor down from Glasgow, Scotland through the rugged, beautiful Tros-sach Country, past Loch Lomond and Loch Katrine to Edinburgh. There you’ll visit craggy Edinburgh Castle, the royal residence, Holyroodhouse, Scott Monument and the elegant shops on Princes Street.
Then on by air to London and the Tower, Westminster Abbey, Buckingham Palace, and excursions to Windsor Castle and Hampton Court. Next, a short flight across the North Sea and you’re in Amsterdam for a tour of its famous canals, the fabulous Diamond Exchange, the Royal Palace, the Rijks Museum and the quaint Zuiderzee villages of Marken and Volendam. Then south to Brussels for two days’ sightseeing in this gay and beautiful capital city. Next, by way of contrast, Switzerland . . . with a day’s leisure in Zurich, followed by a Grand Alpine tour of Lucerne and the towering mountains beyond. And then, at last, you’re in Paris with three