You’ll spend eight wonderful days at the hotel of your choice . . . sightseeing, swimming, boating, fishing, playing golf and just plain relaxing on the beautiful coral beaches. You’ll see beauty on every hand as your horse-drawn carriage “clip-clops” sedately through quiet lanes ablaze with hibiscus and oleander. At night you’ll dance beneath the stars in the witchery of Bermuda’s enchanting moonlight. Late in the afternoon of the eighth day, you’ll be driven to the airport for your return Clipper flight, after a truly unforgettable holiday.
From Boston or New York
Inclusive Tour Cash Price*......................... $155**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment........................... 16
12 Monthly Payments................................... 13
* Includes accommodations at the Kenwood Club. Accommodations at any of more than 30 other hotels and clubs at varying rates.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
7 days
HOLIDAY IN NASSAU
from $11 down
Name your fun . . . and you’ll find it during seven days in the beautiful Bahamas! ’Neath Nassau’s sunny skies you’ll find all the fun you’ve always dreamed of. . . swimming, sun-
bathing . . . bicycling, boating . . . golf or game-fishing... or whatever else you’ve wanted to do. And at night, discover the romance that only an evening in Nassau can provide . . . cocktails at one of many intimate lounges . . . dancing on moonlight-splashed terraces ... midnight-strolling along palm-shaded beaches. For sightseeing, visit pirate haunts, battle-scarred forts, the Queen’s staircase — sixty-five steps hewn from solid rock. In Bay Street’s fascinating shops, you’ll be tempted by fabulous bargains in British and European woolens, crystals and silver, French perfumes, imported liquors and unique native strawcraft. And travel the finest way possible, via Pan American’s swift, luxurious Clippers ... 4 hours from New York — less than an hour from Miami.
From Miami From New York
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.............. $105**	$207
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 11	21
12 Monthly Payments...................... 9	17
* For Summer-Fall season, April 15th through December 15th. Includes accommodations at the Royal Elizabeth Hotel. Accommodations at other hotels and clubs at varying rates.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
7 days
CUBA / HAITI / JAMAICA
from $26 down
Fly by Clipper from Miami to Flavana, for an afternoon’s sightseeing in the old and new quarters and a free evening “on the town.”. Then by plane to Haiti and its capital, Port-au-Prince. You’ll make a complete tour of this exotic capital city with its Carib-Creole-African influences . . . the National Palace, colorful markets and residential sections. From the mountains above, at Petionville and Kenscoff, you’ll catch dramatic glimpses of the city and the sea. (And you can choose an optional 3-day tour to Cap Haitien, the ruined palace of Sans Souci and King Christophe’s fabulous Citadel.) In Jamaica, you’ll tour the bustling capital of this island paradise from your Kingston hotel headquarters. Next day, you’ll drive across the island’s beautiful mountain range to the North Shore and lunch at Ochos Rios. An unforgettable Caribbean shore drive brings you down to Montego Bay, where you’ll have plenty of time to swim and sun-bathe on its
16