from $94 down
A classic “Grand Tour” of Europe by land, sea and air. By fast Pan Am Clipper, you arrive in Amsterdam refreshed and ready for a canal ride and sightseeing. Then on.by luxury motorcoach to the seat of government at the Hague, and via Delft, Rotterdam, Anvers to the Belgian capital, Brussels, and a day of sightseeing. Next you’ll continue on to Luxembourg and the Rhine River town of Koblenz, where you’ll board a romantic river steamer for the trip to Assmanshausen. And then by motor you’ll proceed to Baden Baden, famous South German spa, a trip through the Black Forest, and then into Switzerland — to Rhine Falls, Zurich, Lucerne. After the sights of Lucerne, the next stop is Liechtenstein, fairy tale principality on the border of Austria . . . then across the border to Innsbruck in the Tyrol, and the Brenner Pass to Cortina d’Ampezzo, high in the Italian Dolomite Mts. Next you journey down to the Adriatic and Venice, for a full day and a half amidst its canals and architectural treasures. Next stop, imperial Ravenna with its Byzantine past. . . the tiny Republic of San Marino . . . and then the pilgrimage church of St. Francis in Assisi. From Assisi, you’re on the road to Rome and two full days in the “Eternal City” (with optional
side trip to Naples and Capri). From Rome you’ll travel to the medieval walled city of Siena . . . and on to Florence and its unsurpassed Renaissance art treasures. Then North via Pisa to Genoa, San Remo to Monaco, Monte Carlo and Nice on the Riviera — with an evening excursion to the world-famous Casino de Monte Carlo. Next day, you take the shore route through Antibes, Cannes, St. Raphael to Aix-en-Provence and Avignon with its Roman relics. Then up the Rhone Valley via Valence to Lyon (famous for its grande-cuisine cookery) for sightseeing and lunch, and via Macon and Chalon-SrSaone to the cathedral city of Dijon. A day’s journey North through Vitteaux, Avallon, Auxerre and Fontainebleau, and you are in Paris of inexhaustible charm and gaiety, for three days of sightseeing, shopping, entertainment — and a side trip to Versailles Palace. After Paris, you take the boat train to London, where you’ll have four wonderful days to see the sights of “merrie England” and its great capital. Your Clipper to New York on the evening of the fourth day brings your memorable Grand Tour to a delightful close.
From New York From Chicago
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.................. $935**	$1005
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.................... 94	101
20 Monthly Payments............................ 49	53
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
SEVEN COUNTRIES OF EUROPE
from $98 down
Your great circle tour of Europe begins with a Clipper to London, and three days there “doing” the sights — including a motor tour of Stratford-on-Avon and “Shakespeare Country.” Then on to the continent, stopping first in Amsterdam and the quaint Isle of Marken . . . and in Belgium, at Brussels where you’ll see the imposing Guild Houses, and famous Man-nekin Pis statue. A short rail trip takes you to Cologne and its great Gothic Cathedral. Next you take to the water, going
8