In Santiago, Chile’s picturesque capital, you’ll tour the city’s beautiful parks, including famed Santa Lucia Gardens, the shopping district, Mount San Cristobal. A round trip to Valparaiso, Chile’s principal seaport, includes free time for a visit to fabulous Vina Del Mar, the Chilean “Monte Carlo.” A spectacular flight over the Andes brings you to Buenos Aires, with its Parisian-style boulevards and sidewalk cafes, Palermo Park and Race Course and other cosmopolitan attractions. In Montevideo, Uruguay’s progressive capital, you’ll explore the sea front, Carrasco and adjacent beaches, the famous Carreta Monument and drive to the top of Cerro Hill. Next, your Clipper carries you to Sao Paulo, Brazil’s second largest city. A tour of the city and suburbs will include a visit to the Butantan Snake farm . . . and you'll take a side-trip to Santos, the famous coffee port, with free time to visit the Coffee Exchange, Orchid Farm and nearby Guaruja. It’s but a short flight to Rio, with its lovely beaches, bay-front boulevard and, of course, a cable car trip to the summit of Sugar Loaf Mountain for a panoramic view of this beautiful city and harbor. On the morning of the 26th day, you’ll alight from your Clipper in San Juan, Puerto Rico’s capital, for two days of sightseeing and relaxing. See Morro Castle, the fabulous Marine Gardens, the old Spanish section and other unique attractions of this West Indies island.
From New York From Los Angeles
Inclusive Tour Cash Price............... $1020*"	$1070
Pay Later Plan Down Payment............. 102	107
20 Monthly Payments..................... 54	56
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
from $105 down
A five-country swing through the major travel attractions of South America. Starts right in at Lima, Peru — only hours away from your own home. In four days in the “ City of Kings” you’ll see all the sights of downtown and suburban Lima, including the race track, the ancient Acho Bullring, Pizarro’s Tomb, and the beautiful residential section with its spectacular tropical gardens. A spectacular daytime flight takes you past the famed volcano, El Misti and the nitrate fields to Santiago, capital of Chile. A handsome, modern city, Santiago is surrounded by snow-capped mountains, can best be seen from Santa Lucia Park, a picturesque landscaped hill high in the center of the city. Ride the funicular to the summit of Cerro San Cristobal, 1,000 feet above the city, for a truly magnificent view. By train to Vina del Mar, internationally renowned Pacific Ocean resort . . . overnight at the beautiful new Hotel Miramar . . . next day, a motor tour of this famous resort and the nearby seaport of Valparaiso. Over the peaks of the Andes to Buenos Aires, cosmopolitan capital of Argentina. You’ll be fascinated by its magnificent public buildings and parks, its wide, straight, tree-lined boulevards. And you’ll have three days to explore . . . Palermo Park, with its rose gardens, race course, miles and miles of uniquely beautiful paths and drives ... La Costanera, fabulous waterfront drive . . . the local color of the Italian quarter, La Boca ... El Tigre, a favorite resort on the delta of the Parana River. Now northward to Montevideo, the “Paris of the Americas.” Streets are lined with sidewalk cafes, where you must stop for a cafe espresso. A sightseeing tour of this progressive and prosperous city is a thrilling experience. Next on your itinerary is Sao Paulo, now rivaling Rio de Janeiro as Brazil’s largest city.
27