sidewalk cafes. On the afternoon of your fourth day there, you’ll embark on an easy hour flight to Uruguay’s handsome capital, Montevideo, where in addition to the sights of the city, you’ll motor down the river front to Carrasco and the fashionable Uruguayan beaches and up the summit of Montevideo itself. An afternoon flight wings you up the coast to Sao Paulo, “Chicago” of Brazil, fastest growing city in Latin America. There you’ll tour the bustling business and industrial centers . . . the Butantan Snake Farm, where snakes are milked for their venom . . . the race course, Planetarium, and the old cathedrals and broad avenues that contrast so strikingly with the new skyscrapers of commerce. Next, in Rio de Janeiro, you’ll see all the scenic wonders that have won for Rio the title of “most beautiful city in all the Americas”
. . . Sugar Loaf Mountain and the vast, curving harbor . . . the sub-tropical forests 2,400 feet over the city, and at the summit, the 100-foot Christ of Corcovado. And in the city itself, you’ll tour the smart shops, cafes, beach clubs, the Jockey Club, Copacabana, enjoy dinner and an evening’s entertainment at one of the liveliest supper clubs on Copacabana Beach.
After a leisurely final day on the beach, you’ll plane north to San Juan for a day and a half in the capital of Puerto Rico — then by luxurious Clipper flight home to your memories and your admiring friends!
From Miami From Los Angeles
Inclusive Tour Cash Price................   $963**	$1005
Pay Later Plan Down Payment................. 97	101
20 Monthly Payments......................... 51	53
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
PANAMA / PERU / BOLIVIA
from $103 down
A 2-week northern tour — concentrating on Panama and the dramatic Andes countries, with their relics of ancient Incan and pre-Incan civilizations. Travel by Pan Am routes to Panama City . . . visit old Panama and the Panama Canal . . . cross the isthmus to the twin cities of Cristobal and Colon. Then wing your way southward across Colombia and Ecuador to Lima, Peru, founded by the Spanish explorer Pizarro. By auto, tour to nearby Chosica and the ancient Inca ruins at Cajamarquilla. Next day, by air to Cuzco, one-time capital of
25