an evening visit to Karapiti Blowhole. Through the cattle and sheep country of New Zealand to Auckland, for a 5-hour flight to Sydney, Australia. See the city’s magnificent harbor, beautiful suburbs and surf beach resorts . . . motor to Ka-toomba and the Blue Mountains . . . spend a free day shopping, sporting or just plain relaxing with the friendly people “down under.” On the 20th day, board your Clipper for the homeward flight via Fiji and Honolulu, perhaps using the “stopover privilege” for a longer stay at either.
From West Coast Cities
Inclusive Tour Cash Price........ ....... $1381**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 139
20 Monthly Payments...................... 72
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour
with the friendly people “down under.” Then, northward to Djkarta, Java, capital of the Indonesian Republic. The following day, a 3F2-hour flight takes you to beautiful Bali. You’ll spend four full days in this unspoiled island paradise . . . have a chance to see at least two of the world-famed Balinese native dances and theatrical performances. One full day’s motor tour is included, with visits to religious temples, the Royal Tombs, Rock Monastery, Penelekana for a view of Batur Volcano and Lake and to Kintamini, 5000 feet above sea level. Then return to Djkarta for a free day exploring this teeming city of 2,800,000. By plane to Singapore for a sightseeing tour of this British Crown Colony and a scenic drive across Singapore Island and the Straits of Johore Causeway to visit the Sultan’s zoo and mosque at Johore. Next day, an 8-hour flight takes you to Manila, where you’ll have an opportunity to visit Bataan and Corregidor and explore the ruins of the old Spanish city. By air to Hong Kong, “Pearl of the Orient,” one of the busiest and most colorful ports in the Far East. Ride in a rickshaw . . . attend the noisy Chinese Opera . . . ferry across the busy harbor, between junks and sampans, for a funicular ride to “The Peak” . . . enjoy a half-day tour of Kowloon to witness the primitive life of old China. In Tokyo, 7 hours away by air, you’ll be enchanted by a gracious and typically Japanese welcome. You’ll have a full week to enjoy Japan, including three days on your own in fascinating Tokyo. See the great bronzed Daibutsu Buddha at Kamakura . . . Fuji National Park . . . Kyoto, ancient classic capital of Japan . . . Nara, its deer park and sacred temples. On your homeward Clipper flight, you’ll stop at historic Wake Island and Honolulu, where Pan Am’s Extra Cities Bonus Plan allows you to stop over, if you wish, without extra fare.
From West Coast Cities
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.......... ..... $2383**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 239
20 Monthly Payments...................... 123
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
46 days
ROUND THE PACIFIC
from $239 down
Following a night Clipper flight, you’ll spend 3 glorious days in Hawaii, surf and sun-bathing at Waikiki, shopping, sightseeing, dancing under the stars. From Honolulu, direct to the Fiji Islands, crossroads of the South Seas. All of Fiji is like a picture postcard . . . the flowers vivid and ever-present, the uniforms of Suva’s Military Police colorful and picturesque. From Fiji, you’ll fly to Auckland, New Zealand’s largest city. You’ll see Waitomo’s famed “Glow-worm Grotto” . . . hot springs and bubbling “mud volcanoes” at Rotorua. . .and drive through Geyser Valley for an evening trip to Karapiti Blowhole. Next on your itinerary is Sydney, Australia, with its magnificent harbor, beautiful suburbs and surf beach resorts. You’ll motor to Katoomba and the Blue Mountains . . . spend a free day shopping, sporting or just plain relaxing
13