Paris, where you’ll spend five full days enjoying the historic sights, the night life, shopping . . . the Louvre, Notre Dame, “haute couture” salons, Latin Quarter and Montmartre, the gardens of Versailles. Then by rail to Amsterdam and the storybook Isle of Marken. Next you’ll continue by train across Germany, via the Baltic cities of Bremen and Hamburg, to Copenhagen, Denmark’s “Paris of the North.” There you’ll see the Charlottenborg Palace, Thorvaldsen Museum, Rosenberg Castle . . . and make a seashore excursion to Fredriksborg and Hamlet’s castle at Elsinore. A 3-day motor trip makes the world of fairy tales come true, as you journey through Hans Christian Andersen country . . . then connect at Frederikshavn with the channel ferry to Gotten-burg. A night train takes you to Stockholm, set like Venice amid islands and lagoons. You’ll visit the world famous Town Hall, the Royal Palace, Riddarholm Island . . . and take a lake steamer to the Summer Palace at Drottningholm. Next you’ll cross the border to Oslo, Norway. In the capital, you’ll see Akershus Castle, the Royal Palace and the Bygdo Museum with its Viking ships and the “Kon-Tiki” raft. Then, by rail, steamer and motor, you’ll take a 3-day trip through the mountains and fjords of rural Norway to the North Sea port of Bergen. After a North Sea crossing by steamer, you’ll touch at Newcastle-on-Tyne, then travel directly to London — where you’ll have five days to see the sights of the capital and historic Shakespeare country — before embarking by comfortable Pan Am Clipper for home.
From New York From Cleveland
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.................... $976**	$1076
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 98	102
20 Monthly Payments.............................. 51	53
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See hack cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
ITALY/ SWITZERLAND
from $98 down
Your complete tour of the “Romance” countries and Switzerland begins with a Clipper flight to Lisbon and a stay at the
fashionable seaside resort, Estoril. You’ll see the Bullfight Ring, Belem Palace, Black Horse Square; travel up the mountains to the Cintra Gardens and Pena Castles; and at slight extra cost, take a side-trip to world-famous Our Lady of Fatima Shrine. Then on to Madrid, Spain’s treasure-laden capital ... to the great Prado Museum, the Puerta del Sol, Plaza de Toros, and a side-trip to fabulous El Escorial, home and tomb of the great Spanish monarchs. Next day, you’ll go by train and motor through sunny Andalusia, stopping at Malaga, Granada and its storied Alhambra, the Cathedral and Alcazar of Sevilla. Then North by air to Barcelona (or, optionally, to Lourdes), continuing to the French Riviera resort of Nice. Then by spectacular motor highway (Grande Corniche) to Monaco and Monte Carlo, and on to Rome, for a complete sightseeing tour of the “ Eternal City” ... St. Peter’s, the Vatican, the Colosseum and Catacombs, Quirnale Palace. Next to Florence and its Renaissance treasures, via the Apennines and the hill towns of Assisi and Perugia. And for a grand climax in Italy, — by train to Venice . . . and the sumptuous Palace of the Doges, St. Mark’s, the Bridge of Sighs. Then, turning North, through the Simplon Pass via Milan to Mon-treux, Switzerland . . . and on to Paris with all its ageless gaiety and delights, where you’ll have six days to shop, see the sights, enjoy yourself as you please. Your Clipper flight home climaxes an unforgettable vacation experience.
From New York From Chicago
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.................... $983**	$1049
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 98	105
20 Monthly Payments.............................. 52	55
* Featuring economy-class fares on Clipper Thrift Service.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
7