from $35 down
Arriving by Pan Am Clipper at San Juan, you’ll make prompt connections for St. Thomas, where you’ll spend 3 nights at your choice of several fine hotels. You’ll tour the town from French Cha-Cha Town to the heights above Magens Bay, shop for imported bargain items — china, silver, perfume, cameras, and so on — at low “free port” prices. Then back to San Juan for 3 days in one of the city’s fine resort hotels. You’ll enjoy ocean and outdoor-pool swimming, nightly entertainment and dancing and an auto tour of the attractions of both old and new San Juan.
By morning Clipper to Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic, where for two days you’ll relax in one of the Caribbean’s most noted hotels, complete with outdoor pool and internationally famed entertainers nightly. Here, too, the new championship 18-hole golf course, reputed to be the finest along the Spanish Main, is available for your use. Your next three days will be spent in Haiti, where you’ll stay either in Port-au-Prince or the lovely mountain suburb of Petionville, (your option). Besides swimming, dancing and other vacation activities, you’ll tour the city and suburbs by auto, travel to Mount Kenscoff and 600-foot-high La Decouverte. A two-hour Clipper flight carries you to Montego Bay, Jamaica. You’ll spend three days in that internationally famed resort area, swimming, fishing, golfing or whatever else you prefer . . . and including a motor tour of the Montego Bay area, to Sandy Bay and Round Hill.
From Miami From New York
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.....................   $348**	$440
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 35	44
12 Monthly Payments.............................. 29	37
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
from $6 down
You’d be surprised how much of Cuba’s fascinating capital you can see in three short days — when you travel by Clipper. You’ll spend almost all of those three days in Havana . . . enjoying a complete tour of the City, including visit to the Trocadero Distillery (drinks “on the house”), La Corona cigar factory, famous Malecon Drive, Vedado and other noted points of interest. You’ll go on a conducted shopping tour, an unusual opportunity to pick up souvenirs and bargains in little-known shops . . . and a motor launch will take you out to famed Morro Castle to tour the ancient fortress, with its torture chambers, “old world” cells and vaulted roofs. You’ll also be conducted on a nightlife tour of Havana’s most famous nightspots . . . and still have “free time” to spend as you wish — all in three short days!
From Miami
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.......... ..... $59**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 6
6 Monthly Payments....................... 10
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
20