an Empire embracing one-third of the continent. See the city proper, the citadel of Sachsahuaman . . . enjoy a day-long drive to Pisac for the “Sunday Market.” Continue by rail, car and horseback to the magnificent and awe-inspiring ruins at Machu Picchu, high in the Andes. In La Paz, Bolivia’s capital, explore the Indian Market, gaze upward at snowcapped Mt. Illimani which towers far above the world’s highest capital city (over 12,000 feet above sea level). Your next stop is Arequipa, “city of Eternal Sunshine.” This second-largest Peruvian city, at the foot of the picturesque volcano, “El Misti,” contains many gems of sixteenth-century architecture, such as the famed San Agustin church. Ample time for sightseeing and shopping for the fine handworks of the region — leather, Indian fabrics, alpaca carpets, silver, pottery. Then swiftly homeward by comfortable Clipper.
From New York From Los Angeles
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.............. $1021**	$1068
Pay Later Plan Down Payment............ 103	107
20 Monthly Payments.................... 54	56
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
from $84 down
A 16-day romantic holiday in three of the most colorful lands of Latin America — Brazil, Trinidad and Puerto Rico. Over the Caribbean by Clipper to colorful Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. One of the most memorable features of your visit will be an afternoon drive over the Saddle Pass for a striking panoramic view of the island. Then on by Clipper to romantic Rio, where you’ll stay at the Copacabana Palace. You’ll spend three days confirming Rio’s claim as “world’s most beautiful city,” including, of course, a cable car ride to the top of Sugar Loaf.
An afternoon drive through the surrounding countryside takes you also to the top of Corcovado fora breath-taking view of the entire city of Rio de Janeiro. Next a short flight brings you to Sao Paulo, nicknamed “the Chicago of South America.” While there, you’ll enjoy a full-day mountain drive, visiting the Bird Sanctuary, the Orchid Gardens and Santos, noted coffee port. Back to Rio for two more days and a side-trip to Petropolis, ancient summer capital of the Brazilian emperors. By Clipper to San Juan, Puerto Rico, and your headquarters at the magnificent Caribe-Hilton. Your stay will include a tour of the old city, the Forts, the Walls and the beautiful new residential district of Santurce. A pleasant Clipper trip home is the perfect climax to this Latin American adventure.
From New York From Miami
Inclusive Tour Cash Price...................   $856**	$839
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.................... 85	84
20 Monthly Payments............................ 45	44
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour
from $102 down
Full, 4-week swing around Latin America — including visits in Panama and Puerto Rico. Your holiday begins by Pan Am Clipper to Panama “Crossroads of the World,” where you’ll tour Panama City, old Panama, the sea front, the American towns of Ancon and Balboa and Miraflores Locks. By air to Lima, “City of Kings” for four days of sightseeing and exploring the ancient and modern attractions of Peru’s capital city — the Bull Ring, Pizarro’s Tomb, the Hall of the Inquisition, beautiful residential sections and the Inca Museum.
26