FAIRBANKS
ANCHORAGE
11 days
ALASKAN ADVENTURE
from $40 down
Northward by Clipper from Seattle to Juneau . . . over the ruggedly beautiful west coast of Canada. A sightseeing tour takes you to all the points of interest in Juneau, and along Glacier Highway to the famed Mendenhall Glacier, a vast receding river of ice. Continue by air to Anchorage, the “Chicago” of Alaska, for a tour of city highlights and an excursion to Portage Glacier. Then up the Matanuska Valley, through acres of Vermont-like farms and farm buildings to Palmer, once a Government-sponsored cooperative. Continue north over the Glenn Highway to Fairbanks, heart of the goldmining territory, including a side trip from Copper Center, via Worthington Glacier and Keystone Canyon. In Fairbanks, you’ll see much to remind you of the “Old” Alaska . . . Husky dog kennels, a log-cabin town, many unique restaurants and night clubs. Then a half-day cruise down the Tanana River aboard the stern-wheel riverboat Discovery, with stops at Indian fishing camps and old burying grounds. And swiftly, comfortably homeward by Clipper.
From Seattle
Inclusive Tour Cash Price ............ .............. $398**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.......................... 40
20 Monthly Payments.................................. 21
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
FAIRBANKS
16 days
THE ALASKAN WONDERLAND
from $56 down
Non-stop by Clipper from Seattle to Fairbanks, second-largest city in Alaska. Your sightseeing begins with a half-day motor-coach tour of the Fairbanks area, including gold-dredging operations at Ester Creek. Then a half-day cruise down the Tanana River aboard the Discovery, a stern-wheel riverboat, stopping at Indian fishing camps and old burying grounds for a glimpse into the past of this fabulous Territory. Next, a free day in Fairbanks. This may be stretched into two free days to allow optional side tours, by combining the half-day coach tour and the riverboat cruise in one day. Via the Alaska Railroad to Mount McKinley National Park, second in size to Yellowstone, and habitat of many wild animals and colorful birds. There are many beautiful lakes, and you’ll have a free day to choose from the many Park Tours available. By railroad to Wasilla; and down the Matanuska Valley — the great farming area of the North — to Anchorage, site of huge Army and Air Force bases. You’ll enjoy a full day’s tour through the Anchorage area, including a visit to Portage Glacier. A 4-hour flight brings you to Juneau, Alaska’s capital, for sightseeing and a visit to famous Mendenhall Glacier. Next an “Inside Passage” cruise ship takes you to Skagway for the “Days of ’98” celebration. And, finally, southward by cruise ship through the Inside Passage, a glacier-lined fairyland, stopping for an evening call at Prince Rupert, before your ship docks at Vancouver, British Columbia.
From Seattle
Inclusive Tour Cash Price ............ .............. $560**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment........................ 56
20 Monthly Payments.................................. 30
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
14