... St. Sophia and the Blue Mosque, the Sultan’s Seraglio and the Golden Horn. Next by air to Beirut. . . and three days in the Holy Land . . . Jerusalem, Bethlehem and other Bible sites. Your 12th to 15th days will be spent in Delhi, capital of India, and Agra, site of the beautiful Taj Mahal. Then on to Calcutta, to fabulous Jain and Kalighat temples and the Holy Ganges. From Calcutta, you’ll fly southeast to Bangkok, Siam, (Thailand) with its 300 Buddhist temples and its gorgeous royal palaces. On the China Coast, you’ll be fascinated by the '‘ladder streets” fand the shopper’s bargains) in the Crown Colony of Hong Kong. Across the China Sea to Tokyo, and you’ll be hunting gifts on Ginza Street, visiting the Imperial Palace, Zojoji Temple, sampling Japan’s unique civilization. Then after an overnight flight across the Pacific to Hawaii (where you arrive the same calendar day you left — thanks to the International Date Line), you’ll have two days to enjoy Waikiki and the other tropic delights of this Island Paradise. A last “Aloha,” and your journey concludes with a Clipper flight to Los Angeles or San Francisco — and by a connecting carrier — to your own home town.
From New York or San Francisco
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.... $2067**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.... 207
20 Monthly Payments............ 107
* New York/London, economy class on Clipper Thrift Service, tourist class elsewhere. Price does not include domestic travel within U. S./ Canada.
**See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
50 days
WESTWARD ROUNDTHE WORLD
from $277 down
From Los Angeles or San Francisco Gateways you’ll take an afternoon Clipper for Hawaii and three days of sightseeing and “beachcombing” before continuing on across the Pacific to Tokyo. In Japan you’ll spend five full days savoring the
contrasts of old and new in Tokyo, Nikko and the ancient capital of Kyoto, visiting the Imperial Palaces and the memorial shrines of Tokugawa Shogun. Next to Hong Kong, where you’ll ride the Peak Train up Victoria Peak, climb the “ladder streets” of the Chinese Quarter. You’ll spend a day in Singapore, seeing Raffles Museum, the Botanical Gardens and other attractions . . . then south to Bali with its temple dancers, Elephanta Caves, royal tombs. On the way to Calcutta, vast Ganges metropolis, you’ll stop off in Bangkok, city of 300 exotic temples and palaces, for a boat trip to its colorful Floating Market. From Calcutta, you’ll go by air to Benares, and a morning boat ride on the Ganges, past the burning ghats and mourners that throng this sacred city of the Hindus. In Delhi, you’ll visit the Red Fort and Rajghat, where Gandhi was cremated — with a side trip to Agra and the Taj Mahal. From Delhi, you may take an optional 3-4 day excursion through the low-cost Himalayan paradise, Kashmir, before going on to Karachi, capital of Pakistan. From this Easternmost Moslem country, you’ll fly to Beirut on the Mediterranean, for a tour of the Holy Lands and Egypt, including the Temple of the Sun at Baalbek, Damascus, Cairo, Memphis, the Sphinx and Pyramids, Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Gethsemane. From the Near East, you’ll fly to Rome and three days’ sightseeing amidst its artistic and historical splendors. Your global tour ends, fittingly, in Paris, most cosmopolitan of all the cities, where you’ll climax your sightseeing with an excursion to the beautiful formal Gardens of Versailles. Then home at last by Pan Am Clipper to New York.
From New York or San Francisco
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.............. $2763**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 277
20 Monthly Payments...................... 143
* New York/London, economy-class fare on Clipper Thrift Service, tourist class elsewhere. Price does not include domestic travel within U. S. / Canada.
**See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
30