the “City of Refuge.” From Hawaii, you’ll then fly across the islands to Kauai, the Garden Isle, where you’ll see the Spouting Horn, Kalalau Lookout, Hanalei Valley and its rich, oriental rice-paddies, and awe-inspiring Waimea Canyon—the “Grand Canyon” of the Pacific . . . and take a lovely river-boat cruise up the Wailua to fabulous “Fern Grotto.” You’ll also have a free day on Kauai to enjoy its tropical beaches and scenery. Then back to your Waikiki hotel . . . farewell . . . and a luxurious Clipper flight home to climax your wonderful island vacation.
From West Coast Cities
Inclusive Tour Cash Price *.............. $455'**
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 46
20 Monthly Payments...................... 25
* Include Rainbow Tourist Class Service, West Coast to Hawaii, and accommodations at Waikiki Surf Hotel.
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
TRANSPACIFIC HOLIDAY
from $139 down
A romantic holiday spanning the whole broad Pacific . . . beginning with a Clipper flight to Honolulu, where you’ll enjoy a day-long 100-mile tour of Oahu, including a panoramic sky-
line view of Pearl Harbor. You’ll also have two full days to enjoy sun, surf and starlight nights as you please. Then across the Pacific by overnight flight —- stopping at Wake Island — and landing in Tokyo. You’ll have a full week to savour the strange, yet hospitable quality of this far eastern country . . . including three days in Tokyo itself . . . then to the Daibutsu Buddha at Kamakura . . . Fuji National Park . . . Kyoto, medieval capital of Japan, and Nara, its deer park and sacred temples. A short flight from Tokyo, and you’re in Hong Kong with its rich, kaleidoscopic images of a dozen oriental lands. You’ll ride a rickshaw . . . attend the noisy Chinese Opera . . . ferry across the busy harbor, between junk and sampan, for a funicular ride to the “Peak,” a half-day visit to Kowloon and its primitive Chinese way of life. Then south by air to Manila with its bustling modern air imposed on ancient native and Spanish customs. After three days in the Philippines, you’ll begin the homeward journey by Clipper — stopping at Guam and Honolulu briefly (or for a longer period at your option).
From New York From West Coast
Inclusive Tour Cash Price........ ..... $1586**	$1388
Pay Later Plan Down Payment............ 159	139
20 Monthly Payments.................... 83	72
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
SOUTH SEAS CIRCLE
from $139 down
Overnight Clipper flight from the West Coast to Honolulu, where you’ll spend three wonderful days sightseeing, shopping, surf and sun-bathing. Then on to the romantic Fiji Islands, for four fascinating days among the fuzzy-haired Fijians — fierce-looking, but actually a friendly and gentle people. The Fijis are truly the crossroads of the South Seas, made up of 300 coral-fringed islands with beautiful white-sand beaches. Continue to New Zealand, sightseeing in Auckland . . . Wai-tomo, with its famed “Glow-worm Grotto” . . . Rotorua, spectacular resort among innumerable geysers, hot springs and bubbling “mud volcanoes” . . . and Geyser Valley, with
12