NOW ... as never before . ..
your dreams of travel abroad
can become REALITY
Today, lower fares, faster and more frequent flights make overseas holidays just as practical as ordinary, stay-at-home vacations. Because Pan Am’s wider range of services can bring your dollars and your dreams closer together.
WHEREVER IN THE WORLD YOU GO YOU'RE AN “EXPECTED GUEST" ON A COST-INCLUSIVE PAN AM HOLIDAY
Whether you travel in a congenial escorted group, or independently, you benefit from a pre-arranged itinerary, with all accommodations and arrangements made for you in advance. That way, you’re actually freer — to do more, to see more, to enjoy more new places and faces on your overseas holiday. You travel in famous Clipper style, stay at excellent hotels, sightsee in comfortable buses or private cars. Yet you have plenty of time for shopping and getting around on your own. And while you have an opportunity to sample cuisines of the renowned restaurants of your choice, you enjoy added savings, too, since many meals are included in the low price of these money-saving Pan Am Holidays.
Your PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent can furnish details and help you choose or adapt any of the Pan Am Holiday Tours described in this booklet to fit your particular purse and purpose.
YOU'RE ALWAYS IN GOOD HANDS
WHEN YOU TRAVEL OVERSEAS WITH
THE WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
You’ll find seasoned travelers prefer Pan Am for a number of very sound reasons. Among them: Pan Am’s unquestioned years of experience and its American know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb in-flight service. And of course, there are the frequent schedules to all 6 continents, varied routings and alternate gateways, a wide choice of services and accommodations.
Pan Am was the first across the Atlantic . . . the Pacific . . . Round the World . . . and throughout Latin America. And it has an unequaled safety record in 30 years of flight experience — including more than 70,000 Atlantic flights, 45,000 Pacific crossings,
3000 Round-the-World trips — more than any other airline.
And in keeping with its achievement of being the only airline flying the world’s finest aircraft on all 6 continents, Pan Am now introduces the new Jet Clipper on overseas routes — the fastest, most comfortable passenger service in airline history!
Yes, you can count on it — you’ll always be in good hands when you fly Pan Am —
World’s Most Experienced Airline.
31