BIG REASONS
FOR GOING BY CLIPPER
IYou Have Your Pick of Services to Suit Your Purse and Convenience
PRESIDENT SERVICE First class President flights to every corner of the globe offer you the highest standard of dependable, swift holiday travel —- at regular First Class fare. Fewer passengers, more room, and greater comfort . . . fine, full-course meals and complimentary bar service, with never a tab or a tip . . . midnight snacks, breakfast, too . . . and handy overnight bags. Also available to Europe and Latin America is the President Special, Pan Am’s luxurious extra-fare service, featuring limited passenger list, extra attendants, magnificent 7-course champagne dinners, and exclusive Sleeperette Service. (Ask your Pan Am Office or Authorized Travel Agent about Sleeperettes on other Pan Am services.)
RAINBOW SERVICE Pan Am’s pace-setting Clipper tourist service has pioneered air travel service to all 6 continents — at a cost within range of the average travel budget. All Rainbow flights are on fast, modern, up-to-date equipment — Super 6’s, Super 7’s and Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers flown by the same veteran air crews as premium-fare flights. Fine meals aloft, too, at no extra charge. Yet this famous service costs no more than ordinary tourist service.
Now . . . CLIPPER THRIFT SERVICE for Maximum Economy Now Pan Am’s new economy class fares make swift, transatlantic air travel possible on even the most modest European holiday budget. Clipper Thrift Service fares are actually $113 lower, New York to London, than the already budget-priced Rainbow Service. Yet you fly the same swift, dependable aircraft . . . enjoy delicious, carefully-planned sandwich meals . . . travel with the assurance of comfort that only the world’s most experienced airline can
offer. And, for the travel experience of a lifetime at the lowest budget cost, you can reserve Economy class service on the fabulous new Jet Clippers at no extra charge!
You Get
A Travel Bonus . . .
Visit Extra Cities at No Extra Fare
Pan Am’s Extra Cities Bonus Plan is a key plus-feature of Pan Am Holidays described in this booklet. Wherever you’re headed . . . Rome, Trinidad, Hong Kong . . . you can visit many extra cities for no extra fare! The wide variety of Pan American routings, plus the Extra Cities Bonus Plan, allows you to stop over practically anywhere en route to or from your ultimate destination. It means a real bonus of travel pleasure and interest for you . . . helps make your Pan Am Holiday Tour a truly personal vacation plan.
Best of all, this extra-city stop-over feature applies to every Pan Am service — One Way or Round Trip — Clipper Thrift, Rainbow, President or President Special. Check with your Pan Am office or Authorized Pan Am Travel Agent to be sure you see all there is to see!
3 You Can GO NOW . . . Travel When You Want To —
PAY for Your Holiday Trip LATER
Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan lets you budget your travel as you do so many things these days . . . take your international holiday now when you want and need it. One call at Pan Am or your Authorized Travel Agent — with just your signature and a 10% down payment — and you’re on your way. Budget the rest over as many as 20 months . . . and cover the cost of your entire holiday tour if you wish —- including hotel accommodations, sightseeing and ground travel abroad. There’s no collateral or red tape.
Many thousands have already experienced the pleasures of flying abroad the Pan Am Pay Later Plan way. A quick call to your Pan Am agent will let you join them — whenever you wish!
And to EUROPE . . . You Can SAVE 2 EXTRA WAYS
When you holiday in Europe, you can enjoy two extra Pan Am services that offer you substantial fare
34