reductions . . . leave you extra money to spend on your holiday sightseeing, accommodations and shopping sprees.
Go During the Fall, Winter or Spring
Season and Pay Less
You’ll find you’re in good company. For many seasoned travelers prefer the Winter Season in Europe, say it’s the most enjoyable. Life is in full swing then . . . concerts, opera, theatres and winter sports are all “in season.” And, you escape the peak summer crowds, see Europe in greater comfort.
And to top it off, you pay less — for nearly everything . . . your Clipper fare (with Pan Am’s low-cost Family Fare Plan) . . . your hotel accommodations . . . restaurants . . . take-home purchases. And, you get a better selection wherever you go. So plan your European Holiday during the thrifty Fall, Winter or Spring season, and save.
Take Your Whole Family for
Real Savings
Pan Am’s Family Fare Plan permits entire families to tour Europe at substantial savings. Here’s how . . . you pay the full fare — either First Class or Tourist or Economy. Your wife and any children 12 through 25 years of age go at savings up to $300 on each fare! Children under 12, of course, always travel at half fare •—- those under 2 at 10% of the usual fare. The Family Fare Plan applies to all travel to and from Europe between November 1 and March 31.
Now ... to South America . . . save a full 30% on Excursion Fares
Pan Am’s Excursion Fares now offer budget-minded individuals or groups a new 30-day thrifty way to tour South America. There's no limitation on the time of year, nor the amount of time you can take — up to a full 30 days. And whether you choose First Class or money-saving Tourist service, you save an impressive 30% — almost a third — of the ordinary fare . . . extra pocket money you're sure to appreciate when you're enjoying the sights and delights of your holiday trip itself. Your local Pan Am office or Authorized Travel Agent can give you full details.
need help . . . like more details . . .want really personal travel advice?
See Your Authorized
PAN AM TRAVEL AGENT
No matter where in the world you’d like to travel, he’s the man to smooth the way for you, to help you choose and plan the Pan Am Holiday best suited to your tastes and budget. He’s an expert on hotel accommodations, climate, clothes, customs, good places to eat and shop. And he knows the pitfalls to avoid ... his advice can spare you numberless annoying details or delays. And he can steer you to the right things to see, places to stay . . . and often point out side excursions that cost little or nothing more, yet can add so much to your holiday pleasure.
Best of all, most of his services cost you nothing extra, can actually save you money. Naturally, he’s well acquainted with all Pan Am Holidays and services. He’ll provide you with exact figures on all tours, exact dollar savings on Family Fare or 15- or 30-day Excursions. And he’ll be glad to arrange everything necessary for you to Go Now on Pan Am’s budget-minded Pay Later Plan. Drop in and see him . . . soon. Or if you prefer, stop in at your nearest Pan Am office for full overseas air travel service and assistance.
Pan Am’s “NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE”
For hours of enjoyable reading and indispensable travel information . . . seasoned travelers swear by PAA’s “New Horizons World Guide.”
Since publication, it’s been the overseas traveler’s vade mecum — included in every official U. S. State Department Travel Kit for overseas personnel. A valuable aid in planning your trip too, its 576 pages contain weather charts, maps and everything you’ll need to know about travel to more than 80 countries around the world —■ what to wear, what to see, tips on local customs and shopping bargains. And the latest edition can be yours for just $1 — from your nearest Pan American office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent. (Mail orders for “New Horizons” may be sent directly to Pan American at P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, New York.)
35