Caracas, over the Equator to beautiful Rio, where you’ll spend four days sightseeing, shopping, swimming, and generally enjoying yourself. You’ll ride the cable-car up Sugar Loaf . . . drive along the coast, stopping atop Corcovado . . . and take a full-day tour to Petropolis, ancient capital of the Brazilian emperors. Montevideo, Uruguay’s handsome capital city, is your next stop. A tour of this modern and progressive “ Paris of the Americas” is a thrilling experience. By afternoon flight to Buenos Aires, largest South American city, with its wide tree-lined boulevards and magnificent public buildings. Your sightseeing will include excursions to El Tigre, favorite resort on the delta of the Parana River and La Plata, site of the world-famous Paleontological Museum. Over the Andes by air to Santiago, where you’ll enjoy a city tour and a thrilling rail excursion to fabled Vina Del Mar, a pleasure resort rivaling the Mediterranean Riviera. From Santiago by air past El Misti volcano to Lima, Peru, historic capital city of the Spanish Conquistadores. From here, you’ll take a fascinating side trip to the Ancient Inca capital of Cuzco . . . see Pisac and Machu Picchu, an unrestored Incan fortress city. Via overnight steamer across the world’s highest navigable body of water, Lake Titicaca, to La Paz, Bolivia. Explore the Indian Market and the mighty cathedral . ., view snow-capped Illimani from Monticulo Park . . . visit Tiahuanaco Museum. Return to Lima for your flight to Panama City. A tour of the ruins of Old Panama lets you compare the modern metropolis with the old Spanish capital of the past. Leave Panama by morning flight for a swift, comfortable homeward journey.
From New York From Miami
Inclusive Tour Cash Price................ $1533**	$1466
Pay Later Plan Down Payment.............. 154	147
20 Monthly Payments...................... 80	77
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
from $97 down
A continent-wide Holiday. Over three weeks amid the ancient amd modern wonders of South America — with every detail, every arrangement, every modern convenience provided for in advance. You simply enjoy yourself, in confidence and comfort from start to finish. Your tour begins by direct Pan American routes to Panama — where you’ll tour the old and new cities, drive through Ancan and Balboa, watch the Miraflores Locks in action. After a quick overnight flight, you’ll land in Lima, capital of Peru, citadel of the ancient Spanish viceroys. There you’ll visit Pizarro’s tomb, the Hall of the Inquisition, the Bull Ring, the Great Cathedral — and for a trip back into Peru’s pre-Columbian past — the Inca Museum. Next you’ll fly by day over breath-taking Andes scenery — including famed El Misti volcano — to Santiago. Your visit to the Chilean capital will include Avenida O’Higgins, San Cristobal Hill, Museum of Arts, Old San Francisco Church and the popular race track. Later, you’ll drive down to Vina Del Mar, “Monte Carlo” of the Pacific . . . Valparaiso, the leading port city... and the beautiful beaches of the Chilean “ Riviera.” Your flight to Buenos Aires will bring you into the “Paris of South America” by the soft light of dusk. You’ll spend the better part of 4 days touring the almost inexhaustible delights of this southern metropolis . . . the parks, the gardens, the wealthy cattle ranchos outside the city . . . the cathedrals, museums and churches . . . the Avenida 9 de Julio, widest boulevard in the world. You’ll see actual gauchos at work, lunch at the great hacienda . . . tour the ranch by coach or horseback. And, you’ll have ample free time to tour Buenos Aires’ fashionable shops, to linger over refreshments at her
24