your evenings with dancing under Jamaica starlight. Nearby Doctor’s Cave Beach — one of the most celebrated under the Caribbean sun — will likely occupy much of your day. And there’s bicycle and horseback riding, golf and tennis, self-drive autos, snorkeling, fishing and sailing within easy access. At your convenience, you’ll be conducted on a 3-hour Sandy Bay auto tour — through the countryside, past vast sugar and coconut plantations, beautiful estates -—- to the old Tryall Estate, a restoration of the colonial past complete with ancient water wheel. Your Jamaican holiday comes to a climax with a 140-mile drive down the breath-taking North Coast Road — for lunch at the resort town of Ocho Rios, and dinner and overnight at the Myrtle Bank Hotel in Kingston. After a tour next day of the capital city and its beautiful suburbs, you’ll drive to Kingston airport for a last look at your holiday island, and a restful Pan Am Clipper flight home.
From New York From Miami
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.....................   $280**	$186
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 29	19
1 2 Monthly Payments............................. 23	16
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
11 days
“ISLAND-HOPPING”
THE WEST INDIES
from $36 down
Your first Clipper stop on this island-hopping air tour is San Juan, Puerto Rico, for three days of sightseeing, shopping and
enjoyment. A tour of San Juan will take you to the Cathedral, the Presidential Palace, the attractive suburbs of Santurce and Rio Piedras ... a scenic afternoon drive along the beautiful tropic coastline visits El Yunque Mountain and the Caribbean National Forest, a wonderland of tropical vegetation. Then by Clipper to Ciudad Trujillo, capital of the Dominican Republic, where you’ll see ruins dating back to the days of colonial Spain, including the magnificent tomb of Christopher Columbus. You’ll have a full day to explore or relax on your own, and of course there’ll be dancing and entertainment evenings at the Hotel Ambajador, newest and most luxurious in the West Indies. Next, to Port-au-Prince, Haiti. You’ll tour the city and suburbs, shop the colorful native bazaars of the famous Iron Market. The following day, a motor tour takes you to the beautiful mountain resorts of Petionville and Kenscoff. By air to Kingston, Jamaica’s beautiful capital. An afternoon sightseeing trip through the city and suburbs, seeing orchids in their natural setting at the renowned Hope Gardens. Next day, an unforgettable drive over the Blue Mountains to the resort center of Ochos Rios for lunch, and along the sun-swept coastline to Montego Bay, arriving in time for a pre-dinner swim at one of the incomparable white-sand beaches. Next day is free for swimming, boating, golfing, fishing or just plain relaxing. And you’ll have time for last-minute shopping or a swim the following morning, before you board your Clipper for the homeward flight.
From Miami From New York
Inclusive Tour Cash Price.....................   $356**	$438
Pay Later Plan Down Payment...................... 36	44
12 Monthly Payments.............................. 30	37
** See back cover for details of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
19