the Canal and its locks. Next day, fly direct to “The Beautiful City of Kings,” Lima, Peru, one-time capital city of all Spanish America, founded by the explorer Pizarro. Then a spectacular day flight past the famed volcano, El Misti, and the nitrate fields to Santiago, Chile’s capital. A handsome, modern city, Santiago is surrounded by snow-capped mountains, can best be seen from Santa Lucia Park, a picturesque hill covered with terraces, gardens and walks, high in the middle of the city. Ride the funicular to the summit of Cerro San Cristobal, 1,000 feet above the city, for a truly magnificent view. Your next stop is Buenos Aires, cosmopolitan capital of Argentina . . . largest city in South America. You’ll be fascinated by its magnificent public buildings and parks, its wide, straight, tree-lined boulevards. And you’ll have five days to explore . . . Palermo Park, with its rose gardens, race course, miles and miles of uniquely beautiful paths and drives ... La Costanera, fabulous waterfront drive . . . the local color of the Italian quarter, La Boca ... El Tigre, favorite nearby resort, on the
delta of the Parana River. Now northward to Montevideo, the “ Paris of the Americas.” Streets are lined with sidewalk cafes, where you must stop for a cafe espresso. A sightseeing tour of this progressive and prosperous city is a thrilling experience. Then on to Rio, with its beautiful harbor dotted with small islands — striking against the ultramarine blue of the South Atlantic. Tour the city, drive along the sun-splashed beaches, take the cable-car to the peak of Sugar Loaf Mountain. You’ll have six days to see and do everything you wish in Brazil’s beautiful capital. Then home overnight by swift, comfortable Clipper ... a fitting climax to a memorable vacation.
From Miami From New Orleans
Inclusive Tour Cash Price..................   $940**	$990
Pay Later Plan Down Payment................... 94	99
20 Monthly Payments........................... 50	52
** See back cover for details, of what is included in the typical tour prices shown.
Two
Grand
Tours
ROUND THE
The ultimate travel experience ... to circle the globe, to take in all the major holiday sights the world has to offer in one glorious vacation flight. Join the select company of “globe-trotters” who’ve learned how to see the world the modern way — with not one unnecessary hour wasted between travel adventures — thanks to Pan American’s swift, convenient globe-circling Clipper Service.
30 days
EASTWARD ROUND THE WORLD
from $207 down
From the New York Gateway, you begin your global adventure by fast Clipper to London where you’ll have three days to enjoy all the historic sights of this great European capital city. Then you’ll cross the continent by overnight flight to Istanbul, Turkey, and its exotic blend of Byzantine and Islamic cultures
29