California classic fashion in
cricket covert cloth tailored by Rosenblum...master of the art of designing suits to fit perfectly.
Fall hues in sizes 10 to 20.
SPORTSWEAR	FOURTH FLOOR
CHRISTMAS CANDY: For $3.50 you can get an attractively packaged box containing a foot-high Christmas tree on a red base, hard candy wrapped in colored paper, and bits of ribbon for trimming. A gift with a holiday air. At the Pig ’n Whistle shops in Los Angeles, Hollywood and Pasadena.
GIFT BOX FOR THE DISTAFF SIDE: John Frederics’ Golden
Arrow toiletries are ready for the Yuletide season, packaged in a miniature hatbox and tied with gay ribbon and a boutonniere. Selling for $6.50, it contains two ounces of cologne, soap and talcum powder. At J. W. Robinson’s and I. Magnin in Los Angeles and at Saks Fifth Avenue in Beverly Hills.
GIFT SETS FOR MEN: Sportsman toiletries give you a wide selection of gift packages to choose from, with prices ranging from $1.50 to $10. Distinctly masculine, these sets are decidedly a nice gift. At Phelps-Terkel, the May Company, Bullock’s and I. Magnin in Los Angeles.
LAPEL PINS: Perfect for highlighting a suit, these charmers are gold-plated on sterling silver and set with colored stones. They come in two designs—the wishbone and heart at $5.95, and the heart with key at $2.95. At Gude’s, 422 W. Seventh St. in Los Angeles.
LEATHER THINGS: A handy gift for traveling friends with cardplaying proclivities is the card and dice arrangement in a leather case for $5. Many other items in this favored material. At Desmond’s, Sixth and Broadway, and Seventh and Hope in Los Angeles.
MUSIC BOX: Complete with old-fashioned tunes and bottle with two shot-glasses. Identical with the one used in the movie, Going My Way. In walnut with floral decorations, it sells for $24.50. At W. ft J. Sloane, 9536 Wilshire Blvd. in Beverly Hills.
OVERNIGHT COSMETIC KIT: In black, tan or brown simulated pin seal, this distinguished-looking kit contains four of Germaine Monteil’s famous treatment items plus face powder, lipstick and cream rouge. You can get it for $35 at Bullock’s, I. Magnin and J. W. Robinson’s in Los Angeles.
PEN AND PENCIL SET: Eversharp’s good-looking Presentation Set—matching pen (made for flying) and repeater pencil—sells for $14.75. Colors include Army brown, Navy blue, Marine green, Dubonnet red and jet black. At most large stores and many smaller shops in Los Angeles and near-by communities.
PERFUME: Schiaparelli’s Sleeping—that sly, slumbrous fragrance for the wide-awake. A scent to delight the woman who receives it. Attractively bottled at $7.25, $15 and $32.50. At J. W. Robinson’s, Seventh and Grand in Los Angeles.
PORCELAIN FIGURINES: Gort, a name to remember in the
ceramic field, has done some lovely Madonnas, a timely Christmas gift. On a cream ground with rose or blue, they are priced at $18.50. At J. W. Robinson’s, Seventh and Grand in Los Angeles.
RARE BOOKS: For collector friends. Early American first editions from $5 to $50 and more. At Dawson’s Book Shop, 627 S. Grand in Los Angeles.
TINNED TIDBITS: Tempting prepared boxes for $3 containing date nut confection, peanut brittle, white fish caviar, cocktail onions, beaten biscuits, Sardella Pate, Blue Moon cheese, anchovy paste, Velveeta cheese. Weighs five pounds. At the May Company, 801 S. Broadway in Los Angeles.
TRAYS: Hand-decorated metal ones done by Bloomstrum of California. Ranging in price from $4.50 to $30, you can find them at J. W. Robinson Company, Seventh and Grand in Los Angeles.
20
AI RIFA YS
LOS ANGELES MUSEUMS
TRAVEL PROBLEM
AVILA ADOBE, 14 Olvera St. Admission 25(i, free to service people. Open 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. This is the 7-room wing which has survived from the once-pretentious 18-room mansion of the famous Don Francisco Avila, mayor of the town.
CALIFORNIA STATE EXPOSITION, Exposition Park. Free.
Open noon to 5. Closed Monday. Permanent collections include large relief map of state, hall of animal industries, fish and game displays, and exhibits of state’s resources and industries.
CASA DE ADOBE, 4605 N. Figueroa. Free. Open Wednesday and Sunday, 2 to 5. Built by Southwest Museum as replica of typical early California dwelling. Displays of household articles and furnishings of period. Garden has an outstanding cactus collection.
GRIFFITH OBSERVATORY AND PLANETARIUM, Griffith
Park. Free. Open Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 2 to 10. Science Hall shows large model moon as it would appear 500 miles from earth, also a mechanical model of the solar system. Physics section has machine for graphing visitors’ voices and many science gadgets which visitors may operate. There is a 12-inch telescope in the East Dome and there are demonstrations and lectures in the Planetarium. Demonstrations Friday and Saturday at 3 and 8:30, Sunday at 3, 4:15 and 8.30. Admission: adults 50(?, service personnel and children 25<t.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM, Exposition Park. Free.
Open Tuesday thru Saturday, 10 to 4; Sunday and holidays, 1 to 5; Monday, 1 to 4. Hancock collection of prehistoric animals from La Brea Pits. Natural history wing includes stuffed animals mounted to show native habitats. Museum maintains permanent and visiting art exhibitions.
SOUTHWEST MUSEUM, Marmion Way and Museum Dr. Free. Open 1 to 5. Closed Monday. Sunday lectures at 3. Relics and art of primitive western American Indians. Torrence Tower houses extensive southwest library. Collection of carved religious figures from New Mexico and Arizona.
NEAR LOS ANGELES
ANTELOPE VALLEY MUSEUM, south slope of Piute Butte
on Highway 138. Admission 25^. Open 8 to 6. On site of old Mojave Indian Village. Collection of relics arranged in sequence to tell story of southwestern Indians’ history. Paintings supplement relics.
CABRILLO BEACH MARINE MUSEUM , at foot of Harbor
Breakwater, San Pedro. Free. Open daily 9 to 5. Many thousands of varieties of shells, butterflies and insects. Specimens from Zanzibar, Fiji Islands, India, Australia, New Guinea and other parts of the world. Service men returning from the Pacific are contributing to this collection, one of the most outstanding in the West.
LYON PONY EXPRESS MUSEUM, Santa Anita. Admission!
adults 406, service personnel and children 20(*. Open 8 to 6, Sunday and holidays to 7. Early-day western relics include much from the pony express era and a bar with clear evidences of the rootin’, tootin’, shootin’ customers of the Wild West.
WILL ROGERS' STATE PARK, 14253 Sunset Blvd., Santa
Monica. Admission 25<h Open noon to 4:30. Closed Monday. Furnishings of Will Rogers’ house and the grounds remain intact. Personal trophies and possessions on display.
Next Time You Date Jane ...
—you’ll make a great impression if you’ll hire a Tanner Limousine with liveried chauffeur. And it isn’t expensive.
Late-model U-Drive Cars are available also. 24 hour service.
In Hollywood call GL 3111. In Beverly Hills, CR 6-3111 or CR 6-9791. In Pasadena, SY 6-3 111.
In Los Angeles call
Mutual 3111
T/tofon.
320 South Beaudry Avenue • Los Angeles 13
Limousines ... U-Drives
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
SI