Al R W A Y S
TRAVELER IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
NOVEMBER IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
QUN BATHERS and ski fans may have their fun at the ^same time and not so very far apart in Southern California this November, if the weather follows last season’s pattern. And anyway, the airways traveler surely may bask at his golf and see brisk football on the same days of this mellow month.
The Summer-brown of hills will be turning a vivid green after the first rains, with Fall-flowering shrubs and trees adding dashes of color to a quickened landscape and everywhere the russet and yellow of chrysanthemums vying with scarlet poinsettias.
With the lifting of ODT regulations and gas rationing, the whole Southland again is open to the traveler, who can trek to Palm Springs for a lazy day in the sun or to Yosemite and Lake Arrowhead for hiking or bicycling. The Lodge at Yosemite and the Inn at Arrowhead are open all Winter. Padua Hills Theatre in Claremont, with its adjoining dining room, and El Paseo in Santa Barbara are two possibilities for the visitor who has a fondness for following the open road.
Natives call the cooler evenings cold (they gave up night football last month) but visitors from large areas of the country will relish them as mild and forego heavy wraps.
True, the ocean will be too chilly for most swimmers, but there should be many sunny days to enjoy beach sports. If you’ve a yen for horseback riding, you’ll find good mounts at both the Griffith Park and San Fernando riding academies. Best bets for the hunter are pheasant and quail, with open season from Nov. 20. Crisp mornings call to badminton and tennis enthusiasts.
Football, of course, is the big spectator sport of the month— both collegiate and pro. In the huge Memorial Coliseum (capacity 105,000) Pacific Coast Conference teams will play every Saturday afternoon, battling down the stretch for the honor of representing the West in the Rose Bowl on New Year’s. The month’s Coliseum schedule for the four Saturdays
starts with U.S.C. and St. Mary’s. On Nov. 10, it’s U.S.C. vs. U. of C.; Nov. 17, U.C.L.A. meets St. Mary’s, and Nov. 24, U.S.C. comes back against Oregon State.
In what promises to be the best professional grid season since Pearl Harbor, games are booked for every Sunday after-
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
You may keep this copy.
