of a good Mexican soup will rouse a tired old appetite the minute you walk through the restaurant door. Ablondigas soup —or soup made with meat balls—is a favorite and practically a meal in itself. If you are not accustomed to very hot things, take it easy with those innocent-looking little pale yellow peppers that are almost always served. For most novices, one bite will start a four-alarm fire! If you’re allergic to chili pepper heat, ask the waitress to guide your choice a bit. There’s a wide variety to the special dishes of a Mexican meal, and almost every little restaurant has a specialty or two of its own. Some of the best of them are spicy Mexican sausages. Tacos, which is meat and salad vegetables folded in a crisp tortilla, is another. Good, also, are long green chili peppers (only the seeds are hot) stuffed with Jack-type cheese, dipped in batter and fried in deep fat. Chopped onion tops, avocado paste and other things are combined to make distinctive relishes.
Common as potatoes and vegetables on the American dinner plate are two Mexican stand-bys—fried rice, and red beans fried with cheese. The rice looks something like what is commonly called Spanish rice, but is quite different. To make it, the grains of rice are put in a frying pan with fats or oils, fried for a while. Then a sauce of tomatoes, onions and seasonings is added and the frying pan is covered and set in the oven to bake until the rice is completely cooked. It’s a light reddish brown in color, each grain is separate, and there’s a taste that most folks rave about. The other stand-by, fried
beans and cheese, is made from the small pinto beans, first cooked in the conventional manner, then by some magic seemingly known only to Mexican cooks, combined with cheese and fried. When you lift a forkful, the melted cheese strings out beneath, and the taste is delicious. Popular for after-the-show snacks is chile con came which, if you haven’t eaten it as the Mexicans make it, is a good thing to try while you’re out where you can get the real thing.
FORECAST FOR DECEMBER
December in the Southland will be one grand buying spree. It has taken just about this long for the Coast to shake off the strain of. war—and for the stores to load their shelves with some of the things that everyone’s been clamoring to buy. Christmas Tree Lane, with its lighted living trees, will be the signal for a buying binge that even the visiting traveler will find difficult to resist.
December weather usually is mild, sometimes warm. Suntan fans will head for the desert resort of Palm Springs, which will be in full season. The college football schedule winds up the first of the month with the local U.S.C. and U.C.L.A. fighting it out. Golf highlights will be the resumption of Bing Crosby’s meet at Rancho Santa Fe, Dec. 29 and 30. And there should be bang-up crowds when Santa Anita track gets back to its pre-war schedule, starting Dec. 29. At month’s end the crowds will be coming from all directions for the annual Rose Bowl football game and the glittering floral spectacle of Pasadena’s famous Tournament of Roses on New Year’s Dav.
niBTHian"11

Printed in U.S.A.
26
You may keep this copy.
AIRWAYS
1
© 1945 The Studebaker Corporation
“After all, a car is so much a part of home”
“T keep wondering,” writes a young sailor from the Pacific, “how my old bus is doing. After all, a car is so much a part of home.”
Yes, to all of us, the family motor car is part of our lives. Studebaker cars, especially, have the very feel of home in them—built, as they’ve been for generations, by home-loving, home-owning craftsmen.
Before Pearl Harbor, and throughout the war,
Studebaker engineering genius, sound workmanship and production skill were concentrated on manufacturing needed war equipment. But now,
fine motor cars are again being built by Studebaker.
Many have had the good fortune to own Stude-bakers through the war years. Now, at last, the time is beginning when the smart styling, the brilliant performance, the dependable long-life and solid value of a new Studebaker can be “part of home” to more and more of America’s forward-looking families.
Studebaker
THE CAR WORTHY OF YOUR HOME