
*
iReiATlä S so near when you've wings off a
&
... to be taking you there at 5-miles-a-minute. And it’s a smooth road you follow, over the weather all year round. Your Clipper cabin is warm in the winter, cool in the summer, and your lounge chair adjusts the way you want it ... to read, sightsee, nap, or maybe play cards or swap stories with the grand friends you make on a Shannon-bound Clipper. You’ve attendants to wait on you, bring pillows or blankets, something to eat or something to drink. And not one cent for tipping . . . it’s never allowed. You couldn’t be more comfortable if you’d stayed right at home. And the meals on a Clipper would please even one who has little fondness for food.
And when you step out at Shannon you find Ireland so "different”. Not her beauty alone, with her lakes and her glens, her mountains and shores and the air blowing fresh from the sea. But rather the sheltered feeling she gives and her unhurried way . . . her good humor and witty rhythmic speech. And the way her landscape, her Georgian buildings and white farm cottages seem to brood on the past . . . recalling her saints and her kings and her heroes. Indeed, Patrick and Kevin, Emmet, O’Connell and Brian Boru seem to brush your shoulder at the fairs and the games and the shrines, out at the races or in friendly pubs. Oh, there’s much to see and do, but since Ireland’s smaller than Maine everything’s easy to reach. And with the days you save traveling by Clipper you’ve more time to explore . . . not only in Ireland but throughout Europe as well.
Copyright, 1955, Pan American World Airways, Inc. Clipper and Sleeperette, Trade-Marks, Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
#
M



jm
¿c4
i
• i f
Y
CASTLEROCK LONDONDERRY DONEGAL
.	BA
•	BELFAST
BUNDORAN
OR
IGO
ARMAGH
ARAN ISLAL
- GALWAY
CLARE
-ATHLONE DUBLIN WICKLOW
D'A

Fly Now by CLIPPER
#
"shannon airport
, ERICK
and Pay for it LATER
TRALEE TIPPERARY
KILLARNEY WATERFO BLARNEY* COBH	SALTEE
CORK*•
\RIFF
*. CROSSHAVEN ,SLAND
Ansale
See Ireland and Europe NOW while you’ve the urge to go. With Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan you don’t need cash in hand . . . don’t have to disturb your savings. Pay only 10% down and take care of the balance in monthly payments spread out over a year or more. This famous plan, originated by Pan American, has been widely imitated but it’s still the most popular. For all it requires is a single signature ... no collateral, no complicated financial arrangements.
And any PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent can arrange it for you in a single visit. In fact, your Travel Agent can help you plan your whole trip and relieve you of many details. Even save you money. For he knows how to include "Extra Cities” at no extra fare and to take advantage of low Pan Am Holiday rates and tourist-fare Rainbow service. So — see him today and start planning your trip to Ireland.
Pan American World Airways
World's Most Experienced Airline
FLY TO
’iRGiAnd
>y CLIPPER

A



Pm ÄMERicm
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
Printed in U. 5. A.
H-75
DR 255-50