
LL
Cii
bin'll-’
ReiAnd
another world altogether
Come during "An Tostal” for the special attractions. Or come any time to kiss the Blarney Stone and hear the Bells of Shandon, to see the Book of Kells and the Giant’s Causeway. Explore romantic places you’ve sung about . . .
Killarney and Avoca . . . County Down, Athlone and Galway Bay . . . Tralee, Tipperary and Dear Old Donegal. Visit shrines like Croagpatrick and St. Patrick’s Purgatory . . . beauty spots like Parknasilla and Glengariff, the Glens of Antrim and 600-foot Cliffs of Moher by the sea. Ireland’s heroes and kings and literary men are near you wherever you go. Go back 14 centuries to the saints and scholars of Armagh and St. Kevin’s Kitchen, Monasterboice and Clonmacnoise. You’ll explore ancient Limerick and busy Belfast . . . Dublin’s Trinity College, older than Harvard, her Abbey and Gate theatres, Georgian buildings and Phoenix, the largest enclosed park in the world. Fish or golf — there are 250 courses — attend famous horse shows and races, hurling and football. You’ll enjoy the stout and small talk in the pubs . . . the fine beef and bacon . . . and take home bargains from Shannon, a custom-free port.

i

%
%l
You’ve 7 Big Reasons for Going by CLIPPER
1	No-change-of-plane service to Shannon from Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Detroit. Leave from one, return by another. If you go beyond Ireland, you can vary your routing home, returning from other cities since Pan Am serves more than a score of them in Europe. (And increased transatlantic service includes non-stop DC-7 Clippers to London and the continent.*)
2	Pay Later Plan. Travel now . . . pay 10% down and the balance over a year or more. No collateral or complicated financial arrangements. After your down payment, you’re automatically insured for the balance, at no extra cost.
3	Money-Saving Rainbow. This Pan Am Clipper service costs no more than ordinary Tourist services . . . makes it possible for everyone to travel to Ireland. There’s also luxurious President service at regular fare. And, for the finest in transatlantic air travel, there’s the extra-fare President Special, as well as President Stateroom accommodations, to London and the Continent.
4	Visit Extra Cities at No Extra Fare. When you’re going on to the Continent, traveling Pan American, you can often include visits to additional cities quite far off the direct course, yet pay no higher fare.
5	Thrift Season Savings ... up to 25 % on Clipper fares, November through March. Many claim Winter’s the best time for Europe . . . fewer crowds, better choice of accommodations, less expensive, too. What’s more it’s the height of the season in the big cities, and in the winter resorts.
6	Cost-Inclusive Pan Am Holidays. Whether you travel in a congenial escorted group or independently on your own, you’re expected wherever you go since all arrangements are made in advance and you know what everything costs before you start. Your PAA office or Pan Am Travel Agent can furnish details of the many money-saving tours available and help you choose or adapt one to fit your purse and purpose.
7	"World’s Most Experienced Airline”. You’ll fly the finest, fastest airliners across the Atlantic and enjoy peace of mind aboard the American Flag Carrier that’s made more than 47,000 transatlantic crossings. Pan Am carries more people to and from continental U.S. than any other airline.
* Effective, June 1.


) U 77

