ALASKA'S BIG GAME
Alaska is the big-game hunter’s paradise. Here are found the world’s largest bears, the Kodiak Browns. Also to be hunted are grizzlies, caribou, moose, sheep, goats, deer and many kinds of small game. For bird-shooting the hunter finds ducks, geese, ptarmigan and grouse. The fisherman finds an abundance of trout, salmon and some grayling and pickerel.
AIRPORT, FAIRBANKS
Excellent landing fields at convenient terminals provide for Alaska’s rapidly increasing air traffic. From Pacific Alaska Airways centrally located headquarters at Fairbanks, all points in Alaska are made readily accessible by plane.
ALASKA STEAMSHIP LINER
Frequent schedules to all Southeastern and Southwestern Alaska ports are maintained by the Alaska Steamship Company throughout the year. Bering Sea ports are open to ship traffic only from June throughout October. All The Alaska Line sailings are scheduled from Seattle.
A Missionary (iky pilot) doing _ hisj-ounds via airplane
GENERAL INFORMATION
All Pacific Alaska Airways pilots carry commercial transport licenses and have had a minimum of five years’ flying experience in Alaska with a minimum of 2,500 hours’ flying time.
All Pacific Alaska Airways planes are regularly maintained in their own shops, which are the only shops operated in Alaska having an authorized certificate from the United States Department of Commerce. The Pacific Alaska Airways is a member of the N. R. A. and operates under the Code Authority for the Aircraft Industry.
Pacific Alaska Airways has available at Fairbanks for charter:
Charter Rates per Hour
One 12-Passenger Ford Freighter . .. .$100.00
One	8-Passenger Cabin	Monoplane
Fleetster....................90.00
Four 6-Passenger Cabin Monoplane
Fairchilds...................75.00
One	3-Passenger Open	Cockpit
Stearman.....................37-50
One	3-Passenger Open	Cockpit Waco . 30.00
Charter rates are available at all Alaska Steamship Company offices or the offices of its general agents, Pacific Steamship, Dollar and American Mail Lines. All charter rates are subject to change without notice.
SEATTLE
LITHO. IN U. S. A. - FARWEST, SEATTLE