ALASKA
tn/AlRand
^ U/ATCD
VACATION/ YY/A I CT r>
V TIME /
^x^/AlRo^
%r) WATER
,Ä*
moD-eRn rrdio-€gujupp€d PLfines moD-eRir radio-equipped pmn€s mmn offices fairbriiks rlrskr
Pacific-alaska
c/tUuuayA- inc.
ORRflV RLRSKR STEAmSHIP CO. OFFICE
c-All of Alaska
NOW QUICKLY, CONVENIENTLY, ACCESSIBLE
Alaska’s native population of Indians and Eskimos comprises half the total for the Territory. Their dress and customs represent an odd mixture of those of the Ice-age and of the 20th Century.
Alaska is North America's last frontier for travel, industry and trade development.
Each of Alaska’s leading industries, fishing, mining and fur production, surpasses annually the original purchase price. ^
Alaska is air-minded . . . her ratio of planes to population being the highest in the world. Alaska’s vastness and general topography designates air travel as the logical means of transportation.
Alaska's area, one-fifth that of the United States, provides a world of climatic conditions. Mean temperatures at Ketchikan and Juneau during the summer months, approximate the mean temperatures of the Pacific Northwest for the same period.
&W it is no longer necessary to neglect Alaska, with its possibilities for the business man, the sportsman and the pleasure seeker, because of limited time. This rich and vast Territory is now made readily accessible by convenient charter-plane service to any Alaska destination.
Pacific Alaska Airways, in conjunction with the Alaska Steamship Company’s sailings from Seattle two and three times weekly, now dependably affords the fastest transportation service yet devised for Alaska travelers.
Alaska’s richest and most interesting areas are now reached in as little time as it takes to travel from New York to Los Angeles by rail. For example, from New York to Nome now requires as little as five days enroute — by plane to Seattle, steamer to Juneau, and plane to Nome.
• Alaska s seal, polar bear, and walrus still abound along the coastline and the coastal islands. Photo shows natives hunting seal from their kyak.


Alaska’s greatest mountain, Mt. McKinley, is the highest on the North American continent. Its peak is 20,300 feet above sea-level.