Contributing to the
Growth of Foreign Trade
IN the period 1913 to 1929, United States foreign trade more than doubled. In the former year the aggregate of imports and exports was $4,278,892,000. In 1929 our foreign trade reached the impressive total of $9,557,535,000—a figure which has been exceeded only twice, during the postwar inflation of 1919 and 1920,.
Nineteen Hundred and Twenty-One was a year of depression, like 1930; but in the intervening years there was a steady increase in our foreign commerce. During this period the wisdom of the provision in the Federal Reserve Act, authorizing national banks to establish foreign branches in the furtherance of our foreign trade, was convincingly demonstrated.
Outposts of American banking have been a valued factor in the growth of our trade with foreign nations. Providing direct responsibility to clients; safeguarding delivery of merchandise; furnishing accurate information on credits and market conditions abroad; reducing the cost of doing business; guarding trade secrets and contributing to the
support of dollar exchange—these institutions are effectively aiding American business men to cope with international competition.
City Bank Leads in Foreign Branches
Shortly after the Federal Reserve Act became operative,The National City Rank of New York began to build up its foreign organization. The first branch was opened in Buenos Aires — progressive Capital of Argentina—in 1914. In the following year, the International Banking Corporation, which had been operating in the foreign field since 1902, was acquired. Nineteen Hundred and Fifteen also saw the opening of additional City Bank branches, in South America and in Cuba.
In the ensuing fifteen-year period, the City Bank foreign banking system rapidly added new units throughout the world, and the Bank now operates no less than 100 foreign offices. Day in and day out, the world-wide facilities of America s International Bank are contributing to the maintenance and expansion of United States foreign trade.
{BRANCHES IN LATIN - AMERICA)-
Argentina Buenos Aires (-Sub-branches) Plaza Once Retiro Rosario
Brazil
Fernambuco Rio de Janeiro Santos (Agy.) Sao Paulo Chi le Santiago Yalparaiso
Colombia
Bogotá
Cali
Medellin
Cuba Havana (Sub-brai iches) Belascoain Cuatro Camine Galiano La Lonja Plaza de la Fraternidad
Cu BA—Continued Ca iba rien Camaguey Cardenas Ciego de A\ Cienfuegos Florida
ila
Guantanamo Ilolguin Manzanillo Matanzas Moron Nue vitas Palma Soriano Pinar del R io
Cuba—Continued Remedios Sagua la Grande Sancti Spiritus Santa Clara Santiago
Dominican
Republic
Santo Domingo Barali on a La Vega Puerto Plata San Pedro de Ma cori s
Dominican Republic— Continued
Santiago de lc Caballeros
Mexico
Mexico City Peru Lima
Puerto Rico San Juan Arecibo Bayamon
Puerto Rico— Continued Caguas Mayaguez Ponce Santurce
Republic of Panama Colon Panama
Uruguay
Montevideo
Venezuela
Caracas
BANQUE NATIONALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE D’HAITI
Ilead Office—Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Aquin (Agents) Cap Haïtien Gonaives Jeremie Petit Goave Saint Marc Aux Cayes	Fort Liberté (Agents)	Jacmel	Miragoane (Agents)	Port de Paix
The National City Bank of New York
rrAmerica's International Bank”
Head Office—55 WALL STREET, NEW YORK
BRANCHES AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD