see Britain-
PAST AND PRESENT
SEE
Scandinavia
TOO
Ycu’ll be enchanted everywhere in Britain with how she cherishes her proud past. In London, it’s Buckingham Palace and the Tower ... in Wales, castles and quaint cottages ... in Scotland, tartan, tweed and legendary tales. But her present-day life affords plenty of excitement, too. There’s London’s sparkling night life, for example, and Soho — the lively foreign quarter. Plan now to see all the attractions that draw travelers to the beautiful British Isles.
Northern Europe
HOLLAND
Clipper speed gives you extra time to enjoy more of Europe during even a short vacation. Pan Am’s routes reach all principal European cities, make travel more convenient by Clipper.
Holland is a country of flowers.
Clipper and Sleeperette, Trade-Marks Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
See the Lowlands in tulip time if possible. But any time you’ll be fascinated by the cycling Dutch, their canals and windmills.
BELGIUM
You’ll enjoy Brussels life, its big stores like Au Bon Marche and shops famed for such things as cut diamonds and fine briar pipes.
FRANCE:
To see Paris alone is reason enough for crossing the Atlantic. And you’ll be at home there so quickly! It will be almost as if you were old friends with the Champs-Elysees, the Eiffel Tower, the Flea Market, the bookstalls, Notre Dame, the Latin Quarter and Montparnasse. Pan Am serves the Riviera, too.
GERMANY
You’ll like the Germany of today. The skillfully made German products are back in the shops and a welcome is waiting for you everywhere. All of Germany is easy to see since Clippers serve all major centers, including Berlin, Frankfurt and Munich.
Every part of the north country will delight you. Its cities are clean and cosmopolitan, the people cordial and willing to go out of their way to make you at home. Oslo, Stockholm, Copenhagen and Helsinki offer you an endless variety of fascinating things to see and do. There are excellent restaurants, night clubs and cabarets. Denmark is known as “The Beautiful”, and the scenery of Norway and Sweden —especially the fjords—-is truly spectacular. For an extra thrill take a train up above the Arctic Circle.
NORWAY
SWEDEN
FINLAND
DENMARK
srn Europe
SPAIN —PORTUGAL— ITALY—SOUTH OF FRANCE
First stop on the Continent by Pan Am’s southern transatlantic route is Lisbon. Then on to romantic Spain ... to Madrid and Barcelona where you’ll be welcomed with traditional Spanish hospitality. And from Barcelona your Pan Am route leads on through Nice and the French Riviera to Rome. Or, you can reach Rome via Paris over Pan Am’s northern route. Both routes offer you a choice of either the President or Rainbow Service, and you can go one way, return the other at no extra cost.