LANGUAGE . . . The official language is Danish of course, but English is understood even by the man on the street in Copenhagen.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING. . . Though service is not as fast as in American establishments, Danish laundries and dry-cleaning plants are excellent. Most hotels in Copenhagen have their own facilities.
LIQUOR. . . Good, strong Danish beer and Danish akvavit (snaps) are well known, as well as Cherry Heering. Most kinds of imported liquor and wines are also available. Minimum legal age for drinkers is 18.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... Medical care is available to tourists at a very low cost at the Government health clinics. There are excellent doctors and dentists throughout the country.
MOTION PICTURES.. . English and American pictures and other foreign films are shown in Copenhagen. Better motion picture theaters include the Alexandra, the Palads, the Palladium, Da,} r.a Kio Palaeet, Tre Falke, Imperial and the World Cinem# A-c the le'cst-papers for time and program, which are at set hours.
MUSIC. . . Opera, alternating with plays and t .0	Hafk't at
the Royal Theater, is one of the outstanding '..atures 'if Ev v'mim ,«h; Copenhagen. There is an excellent sympbmw 'hat nt• ton«.« it th;. Copenhagen Concert Hall and a visiting .are • m -niitskpl group, on-'c: a week during the winter. Also, in the arrixtue Co.«.? ' h*- -i of l Broadcasting House, the symphony o Asvre .>•' 9c	r.«.-,ari' gives
concerts weekly. During the sumrm	- >;¡, _<•?;•	t - ' eld A
Tivoli Gardens.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARt >. NV . n v ocwr-is gay and fairly inexpensive. The c> ib ' . : .	■ ■---¿.nont?/
no longer require memberships, > • „. Lw.■ ,bo > pm. cc. These and other restaurants with da.x. ic- u >r sh. may stay open till 5 a.m. The Adlon is the leadi- r ’ r,. taura; with these hours. Ambassadeur and Atlantic PsUx/ ■■■.in	9 p.m. Others in-
clude Lorry, the New Look, the Valende ■ 'i e e . • lancing a! the Nim ¡, and in the summer at the Bellevue V x » hotu,- lr /e good orchestras and other entertainment. There art	•. íevrlk cafés and lit !t
bars.
PHOTOGRAPHY.. . C-	is fully .x; plied with all feds
of photographic equipment .10 • optics at prices almost equi 'a\«ot to those in Germany. Black ;r.' .xhe and color films are d?velé¿¡;.d quickly and well in Denmark Vi^t photogenic parts of the c'ty old canals around fish market, flow? market near the main street, s;uck-exchange and Nyhavn, also modem residential. quarters a. cmd Grundtvig’s Church and strep scenes in the >v.sfe hour'.
RELIGION. . . The sla 3 religion is Luther.n. Tiber , Isureht. include Catholic, Episcopal, Methodist, Presbyterian a? d .lewjsl:
RESTAURANTS... Eaiing being one ol the Datorh national, pastimes, it’s hard to find a poor restaura. ;n Copenhagen. You';, seldom go wrong just walking into the fxx.il £<? e that ,ipp*<‘S io yo . The restaurants listed below are r.uug ih? mos widely surowr-