There is excellent French food and a Parisian atmosphere at Au Coq d’Or. There are also excellent restaurants in the Tivoli Park area: the Belle Terrace, Divan l and Divan II and the Nimb, which have lovely dining terraces. The De 7 smaa Hjem (7 small homes), the 7 Nations, the Hotel Imperial Restaurant, the Viking in the Palace Hotel and the Roof Restaurants at Hotel Codan, Royal Hotel and Hotel Europa are also very good. Oscar Davidsen’s is the famous sandwich emporium. They list 175 different varieties, all delicious and reasonably priced.
Dinner is served from 6 p.m. until late in the evening, lunch at noon and breakfast from 8 a.m. in most restaurants. Three very good meals a day in Copenhagen cos’t about $5 in moderately priced places.
SHOPS AND STORES. .. Copenhagen is one of the great shopping centers of the world. Department stores in Copenhagen which sell distinctive Danish souvenirs are: Magasin du Nord, Crome and Goldschmidt. The headquarters of Georg Jensen is here. Also good are A. I richelsen and Hans Hansen. Illums Bolighus for furniture, interior decorations. The Permanent Exhibition of Danish Industrial Arts and Crafts is a goc4 '.lace to pick up marvelous textiles, pewter, ceramics, china and toy Silver and furs cost much less than at home. Shops close at. 5:30 <.M. weekdays' (7 p.m. Fridays) and at 2 p.m. on Saturdays. 7 hr • Avk f.s.:;k:re< store it the airport.
ST 7 CPA TOR SPORTS... Soccer is the national sport in Den iKu-jrk, Racing arid rotting _ets are also very popular. Bicy^ rving an.’ tc? •	™ tches ari great seasonal favorites, too. See the
V. -¿1 pope -i fo" me im n/Xivi i on these events.
ij'tl 'J. Th . • ar. ourses at Aalborg, Aarhus, Asserbo, - ’ ■ , ft i rg, ’• teri’&i-bc..	m the island of Fan0, Elsinore,
•on‘,ng., Cop nhag. v )d . .. 7 Jers, Rungsted and Silkeborg. Ten-r. courts 5 i pier, if To.\ oca. club will gladly arrange for you to u- v. their courts. Rn -r cl -iy; throughout the country will give you information about hi : . homes. Kajak and canoeing are favorite holiday sports. There are 1 >,.. / ri ;rs, lit	udenaa and Susaa, and the fjords.
Feshwafer fishin some of	/ers may interest you, but if you
. er sea fishing ..-hern-, on w lad to take you out. There is great sport each year i turfs' irshing i the Oresund off Elsinore. The season is from about A .gust 15 to Or' her 1 Sibling is ideal in Danish waters. Get information from the T ish ' ng Association, Langelinie-pavillonen Copv nhager
THE A TARM... Copenhagen -s a gieat theater town. The present-hems ..if the Feral Theater, in .hiding ballet and opera, will interest .j.o v uy,f uxtilia •» stb fUe	language. During the summer there
•¿re -pen p-hf -rro.rises all over Denmark, including the Viking ■est. :iil .: hri.ier'.jf.vsund June 20 to July 5 with colorful pageantry, on ■•'t’ tbV N ■iicnf i Travel Association for information on current
p-i.KiaaSa,
. 7 --au and !); re-, tc ..‘soakk v, are great Dig amusement parks open fron Th' to Septer. er ,TJ,e j. are outdoor comedy theaters, side