Rates are from about $9 to $13 single. Other highly recommended, conveniently located hotels are the Alexandra, Astoria, Codan, Europa, Hafnia, Mercur, 0sterport, Richmond and Terminus. Rates from about $5 to $9 single. The large Hotel 3 Falke (3 Falcons) is 5 minutes away by taxi. Rates from $8.60 single. The brand new Danhotel near the airport offers single rooms with bath and TV from $4; taxi into town only 500 per person. Rates quoted do not include the 15% service charge, or the 180 per day for shoeshine service. Many hotels reduce their, rates between October and April. Camping and youth hosteling are very popular in Denmark, and Denmark’s special “park your children” facilities keep tourists’ youngsters safe, happy and entertained while parents sightsee locally or tour the rest of Europe.
ARTS. . . You could spend all your sightseeing time in the wonderful museums of Copenhagen alone. Here are a few of the most outstanding: The National Museum has excellent collections from the Stone Age, Viking days and other periods in Danish history. The Arsenal has a famous display of arms, armor and uniforms. In Rosenborg Palace you will enjoy seeing the regalia of the Danish kings. The Kunstindustrimuseet houses a fascinating collection of arts and crafts of Denmark and foreign countries from the Middle Aves to the present time. The world-famous Museum of Musical Instruments is in the same building.
BALLET. . . The Danish Royal Balle* Company is one of the finest in the world. Season at the Royal Theater in Copenhagen is September through May. Ballet and Mutiv Ft «j./al, 1 •?£••?. weeks it. May.	(nkur- D •; pj-,u7
BANKS. . . Leading banks in Copent, .,.en v. :‘ Lai d:- ■•¡Aoai Handelsbanken, Privatbanken and Nation . >ant -n all wj; ’i L,S. ail'i-ations. Banking hours are: 10 to 3; Sa ay: </> to 1 Fridays Nso 4:30 to 6 p.m. American Express Office is '. cal x Dagro.rVq?, H. 0. Andersen’s Boulevard 12.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS	Slo ts losed 1 A l . sen ns
are open on: New Year’s Day; 5-d- holio y trc.n Maundy '■ hu Way to Easter Monday; Store Bededag >	.'<l«c 1 • .day fourth >' • my . 'e
Easter); Ascension Day; W! !t Monday Inn- 5.. Constitution Day ternoon); Christmas; Dect: ^er 26, Boxing • • ' ' Other cblebran-ms are lune 23, Midsummer VNt and Inly 4, celebration in the Dan N-:i American National Park in Revi. s
CLIMATE... All of IV mrdvk is wan aer in the vintir and cooler in the summer than the northeastern section ef he I laired States. Winter temperatures .seldom go below 30 Ay'-ree • and .¡a■>. ti averages around 68 degrees. The Gulf Stream keeps the r Innate ou: ble. Best time to visit Denmark is from the miccfi? of Aprp t; November.	.	• ii ;,•<•;)	■ ,i
CLUBS. .. There are many clubs of all k»nds i. Den-oar A• >. the Personal Information Department of the National TWv£i Ass ciation of Denmark for information about dubs which nr.- v niterrN you. Address in Copenhagen: 7 Banegaardspi.tdsfn (in the Cent 1 Station but with its own street entrance).