shows, animal circuses, band concerts and pantomime, to name but a few of the attractions at these mammoth fun fairs.
TIME... Six hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time. Denmark uses the 24-hour clock (12:01 to 24 is p.m.).
TIPPING. . . All hotels and restaurants add a 15% service charge to your bill, plus, in hotels, 1.25 kr. per person a day to cover shoeshines and everything but special services. 1 krone (14^) is the usual tip for small services. Luggage porters get 1.50 kr. for the first bag, 75 0re for each additional bag. Barbers, beauticians and taxi drivers get 10-15% of the bill.
TRANSPORTATION. . . The fare on the airport bus into Copenhagen is 3.00 kroner. Taxis are inexpensive with a basic starting fare of 2 kroner. There are good trains and cross-country buses for traveling in Denmark. Little steamers take you from island to island at reasonable rates. Cars for hire are readily available through all hotel porters and most travel agencies. Rates are reasonable. Apply to your Automobile Club.
WATER. . . The water is safe to drink all over Denmark.
WHAT TO BUY... Danish and Greenland rur ■ , d silver, which cost much less than at home; Royal Copenhagen v.td Bing and Grondahl porcelain; lovely table and other lir n; pevte nd bronze ware; beautiful Danish furniture; Danish toys; j wt'ry. Vr 'si shops
AND STORES.
WHAT TO WEAR. .. As there , no ext. -me? of he it or cold in Denmark, you’ll need neither ven diav^clt	your	ligh‘> f
cottons. Wool suits and dresses ana wsot’a t ;oai be fine a though it is recommended that worn- hr--. g tl . fui T he v-'-.t months. Suits and a dressy black c -fi' w'll f wo .ov.c • o Copenhagen. Formal attire is selo • i: e:	for Saturday e-
ning dancing at the Ambassadeur. Busine v -ui ? copcoa and +vAu'is in the country for men. Bring a rainco?1 t* Conservative spc.is clothes are favored by the Dan^s any who e o .o b of Copenhagen Wear conventional sport clothes fi Mve si rts.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTS!	...
Copenhagen.. .A wonderful y 'o get ycnr h. view of Coper, hagen and environs is by the little n. . urboaui ,aai hug through the canals of the city and the 1 u > fin. oastline. W (-planned guided tours to various points o	: a.u available. Usually operating
throughout the year, they rat ge in ori .e fro’-i $1.50 for (he nonstop City Tour to $10.75 for the Copenha; n ¡Night four. Others	all-
day tours of South Zealand, all- o>. naif-day K urs f Nor h /«';t‘!a£;'., or historical areas. The “Lifeseeing’’ tour#, sm. t as e Wc -Id r‘ Tv. ■ morrow Social Tour, offer opportunities idr beecu ny aci’-., ini- d -.vitb Danish life aside from their unique Meet the Da.ie.. sT-*vi. * .<■> ;, ione 1 under sources of furtu information.
Of course, it’s fun to iyhtsee on your ovm. too T ie K”'g ! ves u; the beautiful Amalienl-org Palace. The Chan;- ng c f the * 'taker place at noon when the King is- ir. residence Ti e royal . >N >n