rooms in Christiansborg Palace ate open to visitors Thursday through Sunday. Other sights are Grundtvig’s Church, which is situated in the middle of the new residential quarter of Bispebjerg, and the Church of our Saviour, with a spiral staircase outside the spire. The Copenhagen Zoo is one of the most important zoos in Europe. Orstedsparken is one of the loveliest parks in Europe surrounding a charming little lake full of graceful swans.
Other sights of interest include the Arsenal Museum, Rosenborg Castle, the University of Copenhagen, the House of Parliament in Christiansborg Palace, and the Gefion Fountain at the entrance to Copenhagen’s favorite promenade, Langelinie, where you’ll see the statue of the Little Mermaid. Tivoli is the famous amusement park in the center of town, where you can dance, hear a symphony, dine superbly or ride a ferris wheel. Side trips from Copenhagen can be made through the lovely surrounding countryside. You can go to Kronborg (Hamlet’s) Castle at Elsinore, 28 miles north. Bellevue Bathing Resort is only 8 miles from Copenhagen. The Deer Park is a beautiful wooded area where horses and carriages can be hired. At Lyngby there is an interesting Ope"-Air Museum, featuring old Danish farms (folk dances on Sundays in the summer). See the exciting Louisiana Museum in Humlebaek, 2 miles from Copenhagen. Continually changing exhibits of till Lads of modern arts. Fredensborg Castle is the lovely autumn rr rider :e of t, e Royal Family. Hombaek Beach, 40 miles from Copenhagen, is worth visiting.
SOU1SC	T . RTHER INFORMATION... To get the most
out of your s».*v ;u rpenhagen and Denmark contact the Information Depjo. of 1 Danish National Travel Association. The office is?, in^tlr C • i St ;m (Tel. 11.1415). To arrange to “Meet the Drives.” cal: i> Aral ). -‘6. This meeting service is international friendship and hospitality a' us best. They will also make arrangements for you to visit .Danish institutions, concerts, circuses or even Danish homes. They will provide information about restaurants, shopping, general sightseeing and special touts. The American Embassy is at Dag Hammarskjoldsalle 24 (Tel. Tria 4505); Pan Am’s office is in the Imperial Building, V> Vesterport, 4 (Tel. By 10.000). In New York the Danish National ’ /el office is a' 588 5th Avenue.
WHEREV ER Y i < GO
Y©y nled N~V* HORIZONS
Tins reprint covers, n a bridged form, only one of 109countries describe in detail in Pan American’s best-selling NE / HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 540-pr ie b >ok also includes useful trs /el tips, v/eatHur c-arts, photographs and maps. Pick up yoi : co. y at any Pan Am office or crave: agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R,
P.L. Bo>. FAri. Jamaica N. Y. 11430. Only $2 in U. 3. currency or qur dent.
© l;‘65 Pan American Wor New Horn ons
Clipuer •■"'ti Nc
% ;
Airways Inc.
’VI. Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
C 113-10 2/65
Printed in U. S. A.