...Trinidad Yacht Club, American Women’s Club, Canadian Women’s Club, Rotary Club, the Trinidad Country Club (cards may be arranged; inquire of Pan American), the Y.W.C.A., the Palm Beach Aquatic Club. See also sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Since this is a British Colony, afternoon tea is a ritual. Customs are standard European and American.
COMMUNICA1I< ... World-wide cable and radio telephone.
CURRE1 ...Trinidad’s monetary unit is the W.I. dollar, worth about 60</• U.S. or $1.69 W.I. to the United States dollar.
The Bureau de Change, at King’s Wharf Passenger Center, issues W.I. currency in special envelopes in exchange for United States and Canadian currency at the prevailing official rate of exchange. The Bureau reconverts unspent balances of W.I. currency into United States currency provided that (a) the original exchange transaction was made at the Bureau and (b) surplus W.I. currency does not exceed the amount originally issued. Original envelopes must be presented when reconverting.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES. CITIZENS . . . No passports or visas, only proof of nationality foi . ¡.Tits up to six months. Yellow fever inoculation required for entry from some areas. Smallpox vaccination certificate for re-entry to the Ur'.ed States. You may bring in 1 quart of spirits or -vine. 'No more ffia.d $9S W.I. or £20 sterling, may be taken in or 6_t.	■■■■•■'
, . . There are chemists’ shops in Port-of-Spain v- ’ich carry well-''Vfbwh braijus of merchandise, but they do not have soua fountairis ar other tl ih ', we find in drug stores at home.
El KO’RIC CTviR* . . 115,030 volts, 60 cycles, a.c.
FAUTjiA . •. Wondprfrii birds, including the famous “Quest-ce-qu’il dit’ (What do he say?) bird which repeats the question several times. ‘There are Ter and small game, to \ The many species of humming birds have 'caused the place tc be called “Land of the Humming Biro ’ There is & small zoo situated-’ •>eror Valley, Royal Botanic uardens, Port-of-Sp„in.
rr 0»\A ... The place is ablaze with	all descriptions.
■ wonderful Botanic Cardens there are cabbage palms, strychnine pj<; riytrap flowers, oi Co ids All over the i ,nd there are lemon grass, arnboo trees, coconut palfcs, para rubm trees, Ceylon willows, cent "■ plants, red flowering immortelles ,-v, blaze all over the H u. luring the early months of the year, * out trees, which have go. nd pink blossoms, and hundreds of brilliant tropical blooms. A-Curium lilies are beautiful here.
..Creole cooking is most popular in Trinidad. But it’s possible tc have in .rnational fare as 'Weii. Specialties include san-cochc and callaHoo, excellent soups, both of Tern. Pastelles, made of m 'at and corr.fi'' dough, are wonderful. Crabmeat served in shells am1 tiny - yste». are famous. Excellent Chinese food is available, and because of the large East Indian population, curries are famous, as are