Trinidad asphalt has paved some of the most famous streets in the world. Take a drive over the beautiful North Coast Road and swim at Maracas Bay. The return drive over “The Saddle” is famed for its bamboo groves. There are fascinating teak forests and thousands of scarlet ibis in the Caroni Bird Sanctuary open from July to October.
At Couva near the shore of the Gulf of Paria is one of the largest sugar factories in the British Empire. There are good beaches in Trinidad, most of which are not within easy reach of Port-of-Spain. But the scenery everywhere is magnificent. Inland, the mountains rise to a height of 3,000 feet and afford wonderful views of the valleys and the sea. There are miniature waterfalls in the Diego Martin and Maracas Valleys.
Tobago. . . The little island of Tobago is rapidly becoming a favorite tourist spot. Tobago may be reached only from Port-of-Spain by coastal boat or by plane. Allegedly the setting of the story of Robinson Crusoe, the island is famous for its tropical birds, particularly the bird of paradise, which is found on Ingram Island (Bird of Paradise Island) off the northern tip of Tobago.
Accommodations are all on the American Plan. CVinter single rates quoted are in W.I. dollars.) The Arnos Vale BedGq Hotel. .-hunted on a 450-acre estate is seven miles from Scarborou the chief town on the island. It has a central house, cottages, and b> ch house. Riding horses for hire, cabin cruiser a" » ,a.d,.pat for fiy • or exploring the coast, a coral beach. Rates t .'-rr $33.50 W.I- ... «ha;•«n
aCo offers every comfort and convenff-	•r'l ; • Ui. ■	> The-
are a fishing launch and cruiser avails - .	gue '- Pu..	' m $3
W.I. The Robinson Crusoe, on Rockle	, • . n ’•	' jp Vi
yourself cars for rent. Rates from * 'q.	•t \ on-is*'	sft d
bungalows surrounding the main ' . ¡¡difig;	Rate- *' $12	. hther'
include the Alma Guest House ($20 i ?’ A. <	,->..¡1. Avfff'v i-> rrteer.
miles from Scarborough, Bird	hn-ulisé ¡r ($"2.50); at 5side,
26 miles from Scarbore ,.gh. ■ ,rowr P - it n.uel ($35) near Crown Point Airport, the Casue	/. c.. ".Hie. $17), and * ->
Della Mira Guest House (from $10/
You will wan» to drive to Man OV> w Bay, a wo* derful natural bay with hills leaching to the water’s eoge. Here is Í •vá’r.dcrful sandy beach. Pigeon Point is one of the best bathing be icbes in the West Indies. You may swim here at the Aqua;!: Huh 'l here are cabañas, but cabañas thatched with palm leaves, it costs, a shilling to swim here, on introduction b, a member. (Ennuire of Pan American ) Equipped with sea goggles, you may see fascinating marine Efe in tn3 Coral Sea Gardens at Buccoo Reef and enjoy a swim m the cool water of the Nylon Pool, so named by American visitors to this .snot.
SOURCES OF FURTHER .INFORMATION . . . Trinidad and Tobago Tourist Board at King’s Wharf Passenget Center. Port-of-Spain; Administration Building, Scarborough, r) 'bago. New York office, 48 East 43rd Street, New York 17. Pan American’s office is at 12 Abercrombv Street, Port-of-Spain (Tel. 6161),