roti and other Indian dishes which are very hot and spicy. Of course, fresh fruit abounds; avocado pear, sapodillas, mangoes.
GAMBLE . . . Horse racing is very popular. Pari-mutuel and forecast betting and sweepstakes. There are eight meetings throughout the year; December-January: Five Days—Queen’s Park Savannah Port-of-Spain. February-March: Two Days—Shirvan Park, Tobago. March-April (Easter): Five Days—New Union Park, San Fernando. May: Two Days—Arima. June-July: Five Days—Queen’s Park Savannah, Port-of-Spain. August-September: Five Days—Santa Rosa, Arima. October: Two Days—New Union Park, San Fernando. October-No-vember: Two Days—Shirvan Park, Tobago.
LANGUAGE . . . English, of course, is the native tongue. But French, Spanish, Hindi, Chinese and other languages are heard here.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Laundry is good. Dry cleaning good, with 8-hour service. Prices compare favorably with those in the United States. The Sanitary Laundry and the Trinidad Steam Laundry, both reliable, have branches throughout the island.
LIQUOR . . . Rum is the national drink. Trinidad is the home of Angostura Bitters. Many rum drinks cost about '0 cents and they are wonderful. Whisky, brandies and gins are available at prices comparable to those in the United States. Glr is. slightly Less and the British gin flourishes here. But Planter’s Punch is, the thing. Bar hours —8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Hotel bar hoi. s—8:0p a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Excellen* nursing homes no available. The General Hospital in Port-oi-Soain is modern . d file San Fernando hospital is one of the largest and r... st ..ode-p in the West Indies. Good English-trained docto’, are a'aC.ble.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are r-aits edemas: the As.-.,..; the Empire; the de Luxe; the Gloh:; the J, t-n J anu ‘he Starlitc (drive-in)—which show American and English film.-..
MUSIC .. . Trinidad is the home of the caly-v and it-, more recent innovation, the steel band, which consists ,)f steel dr. ms of varying tones beaten to alypso rhythm. The alypso singer, as everyone kno‘	takes r’ .epical theme and weaves it into an extemporaneous	'ary, c?l. csj tents spring ..o in the city
and various calyp	;e with eacn other in a “war.”
NIGHT CLUB» AND "CAB‘'RETS .. . There a.ie few night cliibs as we know them, bu* ‘here is dancing wo.-rly at the Trinidad j try Club, the Trinidad ,.pht Club the i^tus Restaurant, Taye/h o* the Green, Normandy. Bel-Air hotels. The Bombay Club is a late spot.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Photographic equipment is in goad in Port-of-Spain. Special 24-hour service for bUi developing wav be had in Port-of-Spain at Chan’s Photographers, 9tj. Frederick SU'-et. Pereira and Co., Ltd 24 Frederick Street; W. C Loss and Co., Ltd , 27 Frederick Street.
B RELIGION ... Because of the polyglot nature "e the population, one finds churches of almost all faiths here—Hindu	ales Mode...
mosques, Jewish synagogues, Catholic and Protestant churches