GOVERNMENT ... A British colony, Trinidad and Tobago are combined for administrative purposes. Trinidad is the site of the capital of the new Federation of the West Indies.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper de luxe or tourist service. New York to Port-of-Spain, 7% hours flying time; frequent Clipper service from other British West Indies islands and the Virgin Islands. By ship, about 4Vi days from New York.
ACCOMMODATIONS. . . The Queen’s Park Hotel is located opposite the Savannah, which is 200 acres of green turf in Port-of-Spain. This is one of the main centers of the city’s sports life. Rates from $10. A modern hotel, the Bretton Hall, is situated a few yards from the Queen’s Park Savannah. Rates from $10. Two other modern hotels situated conveniently near the city are the Bergerac (rates on application) and the Normandie (some air-conditioned rooms). Rates from $22. Among other hotels are Hotel Coblentz ($8) and Bagshot ($20 American Plan). These rates are European or Continental Plan per person in W.I. dollars. Discount 40 per cent to get approximate equivalents in United States dollars. There are many guest houses in Port-of-Spain and in the surrounding countryside. Most of them are charming, all of them reasonable. The Mt. Saint Benedict Guest House has a superb view. There is a PAA guest house with air-conditioned cocktail lounge and rooms near Piarco airport. Also the Bel-Air Hotel at the airport.
ARTS . . . Royal Victoria Institute Museum; Trinidad Art Society.
BANK:- . . . Barclay's Bank; Canadian Bank of Commerce; Royal Bank of Canada; Bank of Trinidad; Bank of Nova Scotia. Banking hours are 8:00 a.m. to noon, Monday through Friday; 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on Saturday.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS... New Year’s Day; Federation Day; Good Friday; Easter Monday; Empire Day; Queen’s Birthday; Corpus Christi; Whit Monday; First Monday in August; Christmas; December 26 (Boxing Day).
Two important events of interest to tourists are the calypso season and the Moslem Hosein Festival Calypso begins in early January and the Festival of Hosein takes place on the 6th, 7th and 8th day after the Mohammedan New Year. Other events of interest are: agricultural and horticultural shows and the Roman Catholic Feast .of La Divina Pastora (Siparia Fête). Can’t val is celebrated on the two days preceding Lent. The streets are. Gcwded with bands of cos. amea natives roaming from place to place. It i one of the gayest and most colorful carnivals in the world.
CIGARETTES. . . Most brands of American c.'gaiettes ar<- available. English cigarettes are plentiful as are locally made brands. 200 cigarettes or equivalent allowed in duty free.
ÇLIMA ...January to March is the ideal time in Trinidad. The weather is cooler then, but even in the hotter months the nights are cool. The rainy season is June to December, -but although the rains are heavy they are of short duration.