room with bath. First class hotels include the Carlton, the KNA (Royal Norwegian Automobile Club); the Norum, the large new Viking, and the Holmenkollen, which is on the famous hill overlooking the city. Rates at these hotels average $7 single, $11 double. There is usually an extra charge of Kr. 1 or 2 if you stay only 1 night, but you get a lower rate if you stay more than 3 nights. There are also several “offseason” rate reductions during the year. Advance reservations are recommended, especially in summer. The Mission hotels (Misjonshotell) and student hotels (Studenthjemmet Hotell) are recommended if you’re on a limited budget.
ARTS . . . Oslo has a large variety of museums and galleries.'The Viking Ship Museum is unique. The Ski Museum has exhibits tracing 2,500 years in the history of skiing. The National Open Air Museum is a restored Norwegian village. The Vigeland Museum contains the work of Norway’s greatest sculptor. The new Munch Museum opened in 1963. The Historical Museum is devoted to exhibits of Norwegian culture. The Museum of the Polar Ship Fram has interesting exhibits concerning this ship’s arctic expedition. The Kon-Tiki raft is also on view. Also of interest are the National Gallery, the Arts and Crafts Museum, the Theater Museum and the beautifully decorated new City Hall. Most museums open at,noon.
BANKS . . . Den Norske Creditbank, Christiana Bank og Kredit-kasse, Bergens Privatbank. Most hotels, large restaurants and stores and the American Express Company will also cash travelers checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Stores and museums are closed on: Jan. 1, May 1, May 17 (Independence Day), Whitsun, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Maundy Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Sunday and Easter Monday.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS AND TOBACCCO . . . Take in all you are allowed; American cigarettes cost over $1 a pack. However, local brands are good.
CLIMATE . . . From April to September the nights are very short, and around midsummer you can read a newspaper out of doors at midnight. Above the Arctic Circle, the sun shines 24 hours a day. Thanks to the Gulf Stream, the climate in Norway is temperate. For wirter sports, January through April are ideal.
CLUBS ,., Lions and Rotary Clubs in most large centers.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... Eiderdowns take the place of top sheets even in the . Mels, alth ,ugh you can get blankets and top sheet at some. Dress is informal. A. ¿he best resort hotels dinner jackets are expected only in winter re ason.
COMMUNICATIONS ... A 3-minute phone ca‘i Z& the States costs Kr. 80.80. A 10-word cablegram costs Kr. l.f Ao New York,
(Kr. 24 elsewhere in the U.S. Postage for a 5-gran- airman letter is Kr. 1.25; 90 0re for an airletter. Local phone ci are 25 0re.
CURRENCY . . . There are 100 0re in a krone, which is valued at 14<f. There are Kr. 7.15 to U.S. $1.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS ;REOUK ED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . , UhlinUtetf tarsi 1 bottle