overlooking Oslo and the harbor has a fine dining room. The Mirror Room at the Grand Hotel is very attractive and serves good food. La Belle Sole is outstanding. Blom is a favorite of the artistic set. The Hotel Bristol serves excellent food. The Queen (Royal Norwegian Yacht Club), and the King (Oslo Rowing Club); both have large restaurants with dance floors (May through September). Fregatten is a delightful seafood restaurant. There are also two Wimpy’s, with genuine American-style short-order counters.
SHOPS AND STORES... Steen and Strom in Oslo is Norway’s biggest department store. Maja Jensen is good for tinware, ceramics and toys; David Andersen and Tostrup for silver. Gresvig for sporting goods; Heimen for wood carvings and native craft products; Hjordis Egelund for souvenirs; Husfliden (Association of Home Arts and Crafts) for tapestries, sweaters and all sorts of woolens. A must is William Schmidt on Karl Johans Street. L. Galligani also is excellent for crystal and other gift items. See Forum’s permanent exhibition of arts, crafts and industrial designs.
SPECTATOR SPORTS ... Championship ski competitions are the greatest spectator attraction during the winter, and soccer during the summer. Skating races also draw crowds. The Holmenkollen ski competition near Oslo is the first week of March.
SPORTS . . . Most Norwegians who can walk can ski, and Norway is one of the ski capitals of the world. Ski-touring is very popular. Huts and lodges dot the routes of cross-country runs. Norway is full of all kinds of slopes and jumps, lifts, instructors and cheerful ski lodges. Renting your skis is wiser than bringing them. Norwegian skis are the best in the world and rented ones insured against damage. Tobogganing and skating and bob-sledding are also very popular.
The fishing in Norway is excellent too. You fish for trout and pike in almost any of the streams or lakes. Salmon fishing is magnificent. You can even lease your own river for about $600 a month, or just go where the salmon fishing is. Preliminary arrangements are necessary with the hotels that own rights. Equipment and boats are available at reasonable cost. Sailing and swimming also rank high. The Oslo Golf Club’s course at Bogstad is ideal. There are also golf courses in Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. Tourists are welcome.
Norwegian alps are a mountain-climber’s delight. Cyclists and hikers will find pleasant rolling countryside beneath the snow-capoed peaks. Winter ski lodges become hostels for hikers and climbers in the summer months. The hunting is wonderful. Deer and moose abound. A license is inexpensive. Rabbit, fox, hare and game biros are abun dant. All in all, Norway is a year-round sportsman’s paradise.
THEATERS... In Oslo the National Theater stages classical drama, modern literary plays and light comedy. There is an annua! Ibsen cycle. The New Theater devotes itself to light plays. Chat Noir is the oldest music hall with revues.
TIME . . . Noon in Oslo is 6 a.m. in New York.
' tlPPING . . . Hotels add a 10-15% service charge to your bill, and no other tips áre expected, except 50 0re peí 'ay lo the head porter.