The hotel facilities here are excellent. The Alstor Hotel, Atlantic Hotel, the Hotel Victoria and the Ocean Hotel all have fine accommodations. The Ocean Hotel is the newest. In the vicinity of Stavanger you have the Sola Hotel and the Viste Hotel, well-known sea resorts.
Trondheim ... is the principal city in north-central Norway (8 hours by train from Oslo, IV2 hours by air). There is a fabulously lovely cathedral, begun in the 11th century and being restored today. Norway’s great Technical College is here. The River Nid runs through the city and can be crossed by four graceful bridges. Sailing, fishing and skiing are all wonderful near Trondheim. Cozy and cheerful ski lodges offer simple accommodations. The Britannia, Astoria, Prinsen and Bristol are the good hotels in the town itself.
Lillehammer ... This charming town is the center of the greatest skiing in Norway (4 hours by train from Oslo). The Victoria is the best hotel in town, but excellent summer and winter resort accommodations are plentiful.
There are several circular motor-coach tours out of Oslo which take from 5 to 10 days. These tours take in all the points of interest. Whatever your itinerary, be sure to include the fjords.
The Fjords . . . Norway’s fjords in the western part of the country are often 100 miles long and as deep as */5 of a mile. The largest are shown on the map. The most comfortable way to see the fjords is on one of the coastal steamers, or you can go by car or bus, and take local ferries to see the magnificent fjord scenery. Deluxe all-inclusive coach tours, lasting 3 or 6 days, depart from Bergen and Oslo and include the famous Hardanger Fjord in their itineraries. In the early summer there is perpetual sunlight, so if you & e touring the fjords at this time it is almost impossible to tear yourself away from the scenery to sleep.
North Norway ... About one-third of Norway lies north of the Arctic Circle, but even this part of the country is now easily accessible to visitors with little time if they plan well and book in advance. There are special cruises out of Bergen and also round trips of days by the regular coastal express steamers. Other prearranged tou are available from Oslo which combine air and sea transportation he North Cape Certificate, which is given to those who have visited he North Cape area, northernmost point in Europe, is a rare and priced document For the truly adventuresome, polar bear h' nting safaris sail from Tromsp to Spitzbergen in June, July and Augus . our own travel agent can make reservations.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION .. All leading :ravel bureaus and the Oslo Information Office, losenkrartzgj J’A. Pan American’s office at Kronprinsesse Marthasplass 1 (Tel. 41'.7.80). In New York the Norwegian National Travel Office is at 290 Madison. Avenue.