Round off restaurant check (which has 12Vi% service charge) to the nearest krone; ditto for taxi drivers. Tip washroom attendants and hat-check girls 50 0re. Luggage porters get Kr. 1 for the first bag, 50 0re for each additional bag.
TRANSPORTATION . . . City buses are easy to use, and, of course, there are taxis. Bus fare from airport to Oslo is Kr. 7. Rates for drive-yourself cars are reasonable, but there are also countless well-organized tours around cities and around the country by boat, bus, train and plane.
WATER . . . Excellent.
WHAT TO BUY ... Norwegian enamelware and silver are your best buys. Native craft products are beautiful. They include textiles, glassware, embroideries, brassware and leather goods. Furs are marvelous. Prices are much lower than at home, but our duty is high.
WHAT TO WEAR ... Warm heavy clothing is a must in the winter. Black suits and dresses are formal enough for Oslo night life. Raincoats will com^ in handy. Bring medium-weight clothes for summer.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Oslo ... The 900-year-old city of Oslo is full of fascinating things to see. The town is surrounded by wooded hills and distant snowcapped peaks. You’ll want to see the Changing of the Guard at the Royal Palace, the beautiful buildings of the University of Oslo, the National Theater with its statues of Bjornson and Ibsen, and the Nobel Institute where the Nobel prizes are awarded. Stroll through beautiful Karl Johans Gate Park. There are band concerts and outdoor cafés here. The medieval castle. Akershus, built by Haakon V, is a must. A trip up the Holmenkollen behind the city offers a wonderful view. There’s the Holmenkollen Recreation Center here too. A visit to the harbor will give you a good idea of native life. Just wandering around the medieval part of the city will be like going back over 500 years in local history. Plan to see the Vigeland Sculpture Park, the Kon-Tiki i the Open Air Museum and the Viking Ships Museum and the of r museums mentioned under arts. There are also regular sightseeing .jurs by boat down the Oslo Fjord. They start from the City HaU,
Bergen ... is Norway’s second largest city (7Vi hours by train from Oslo or 1 Vi hou,-> y air). It has wonderful examples of medieval, Renaissance and striV »iy modern architecture. See the Maria Church, built in the 12th ce- >.ry. The Hanseatic Museum gives an excellent idea of the culture á old Norway. There is a fine art gallery and ethnological collection r. the Bergen University, another interesting sight. LKhei things to s include the harbor and market places, the home i f Edvard Grieg, and the old Norwegian Stave churches. Leading hotels include the Bristol and the Orion. Rates from $7 single. The new A:orge opens late in 1964. Side trips may be made to the beau- ; V "l fjords around Bergen. It’s also the starting point for the coastal
ness steamers to the Land of the Midnight Sun.
ranger . , . Norway's fourth largest city is the new gateway to tre Norwegian fjords (11 hours by train or 1 hour by air from Oslo).