of liquor, 1 of wine, 400 cigarettes or 80 cigars or 500 grams of tobacco are allowed in duty free. Also no more than 1,000 kroner in, no larger than 100-kroner denominations. You need a passport, no visa.
DRUGSTORES . . . Norwegian drugstores carry many American products or their European equivalents.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... The voltage in Norway is 220 A.C., except for Stavanger, with 110 a.c. and Trondheim with 150 a.c.
FAUNA . . . Norwegian waters abound with many species of fish. Both salt-water and fresh-water fishing are excellent. Big-game animals include bear, moose and reindeer. Many small wild animals are found in Norwegian forests, including wolf, fox, lynx, otter and beaver. There are also game birds, grouse being the most abundant.
FLORA ... The beautiful forests of Norway are mainly spruce, fir and pine trees. Birch trees are everywhere. The vegetation of the valleys of southern Norway is very beautiful. Wild berries are plentiful and flowers are profuse in the gorgeous spring season.
FOOD ... Breakfast is a large meal with a cold buffet. Fish is served in great variety. Dinner is apt to be at 4:30, followed by tea and sandwiches at 9 p.m. Tourists don’t have to eat at these hours, however. Good a la carte meals are available at all times.
LANGUAGE ... English is spoken everywhere.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... There are good cleaning and laundry services in all principal towns. Inquire at your hotel.
LIQUOR . . . Beer, gin and aquavit are very popular. The liquor stores (Vinmonopolet) carry all varieties of wine and liquor. City bars are open from 3-11:30 p.m.; liquor is served in country hotels from 1-11:30 p.m. Minimum legal age for drinkers is 21.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... Modern hospitals and excellent doctors are available. Ski resorts have well-equipped first-aid centers.
MOTION PICTURES ... The latest American and English pictures are shown with Norwegian subtitles. Be on time for performances, because late-comers may not remain at the end of a program to catch the beginning. Seats may be reserved.
MUSIC . . . The Oslo Symphony Orchestra is outstanding. The beautiful Norwegian folk music, a source of inspiration to Edvard Grieg and other composers, is an important part of the life of the people. The International Festival of Music is in Bergen from late May o early June.
NIG*IT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... In Oslo Telle Cabaret has fine entertainment and serves all sorts of drinks. Telle Grill is small, exclusive and smart. The Rainbow Room is the biggest night club in Oslo. The Hotel Bristol has the formal Moorish Hall.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Camera equipment, black-and white and color, still and movie film are available at reasonable prices, and developing services are good.
iiELlGION . . . Norway is a Lutheran country but there are synagogues and dur chi s of other sects.
RESTA ’ -&A >1	. . In Oslo you will find many fine places to dine
and dance, i.he Vrc nerseter Restaurant up in the Holmenkollen Hills
M