the city. It is wonderful from'Monticulo, a small park in new La Paz, where you get a magnificent view of the city. The Prado with its promenade is the pride of the city. Visit the Tiahuanaco Museum.
Cochabamba ... is the resort town to which Bolivians from La Paz and other spots go. It is located in a garden valley, one of the most fertile spots in the country. Indian traffic cops stand on raised platforms at street intersections, wearing bulging trousers and kepis. The old Spanish houses have overhanging tiled eaves. Best hotel is the Gran Hotel Cochabamba, with swimming pool, tennis courts. Also Hotel Colon. Cochabamba was the home of the late Simon Patino, the Tin King of Bolivia. He built Los Portales, a palace near the edge of the city set in grounds as large as a park. The roof is of solid copper. The Patino family recently presented Los Portales to the University for use as a museum. El Cortijo is a lovely spot five minutes from the Hotel, with excellent bar and restaurant, crystal-clear swimming pool and tennis courts. Fifteen miles from the city is Pairumani, the Palacio estate of 5,000 acres, with model farms, gardens, cattle breeding establishments and a magnificent house. The shopping center of Cochabamba is comparable to that of La Paz, but its magnificent climate is its main feature. A trip to the top of the hill of San Sebastian in the middle of the city affords a wonderful view of the town with its red-tile roofs, pink churches.
Copacabana • • • This is a famous shrine visited every August by pilgrims from all parts of the country. Its main feature is the church that has the Virgin of Copacabana which was carved in the sixteenth century. There is a hotel operated by the Government and one run by Compania Hotelera Boliviana. The Club Princesa is the place to go here. Drinks served; dinner at night. Ask for ananas con rum, a tropical concoction of lush pineapple juice and medium-brown rum.
Copacabana is 3 hours or so from La Paz on Lake Titicaca, the world’s highest lake. Spend the night there; see the sun rise across those strange waters, straw boats, wild ducks and geese.
Sucre ■ • ■ the former, and still official, capital of Bolivia, is known as the white city because all its churches have white towers. It has a wonderful old university, interesting public buildings and an air of quiet charm. You can fly from La Paz to most of the places mentioned here.
Tiahuanaco • ■ • Sixty miles from La Paz are the famous pre-Inca ruins on the shores of Lake Titicaca. The tall quaint ruins. La Puerto del Sol, were the original seat of the first inhabitants of South America.
The Yungas are deep, narrow tropical valleys descending sharply from the high plateau. The climate here is subtropical and the change from the rarefied air of La Paz to the warm depths is unforgettable. The Yungas are 5 hours from La Paz by car.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION . . There are several good travel agents. Grace y Cia (Bolivia) at Mercado 316 (Tel. 3331 ) are agents for Panagra in La Paz.