fIuNA • • • Llama, vicuña and alpaca on the plateau; fresh water fish near Cochambamba; wolf, American tigers, bears and game birds in the forests; monkeys, parrots, crocodiles, caimanes in the tropical regions. Salmon and trout at Lake Titicaca.
FLORA • • • ^e vegetation of the valleys of Bolivia is very beautiful. There are also forests in the Orient of Bolivia.
FOOD • • • Truly native food is highly seasoned with a really hot pepper. Favorite dishes are chuno, frozen potatoes mixed with meat, fish or eggs; empanadas, native meat pies; plato paceño, corn, potatoes, cheese and beans. Fish is delicious. And try picantes, bits of chicken cooked in pungent sauce. More cosmopolitan food is available in the hotels and some of the restaurants.
LANGUAGE • ■ • Spanish; but in the better hotels, restaurants and shops, English is spoken and understood.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING • • • La Nevada and Pamba are among the best, where all clothes can be very well cleaned or dyed. Very fast service.
LIQUOR • • • There are native red and white wines. Most liquors are expensive because of the import duty.
1VIEDICAL FACILITIES ■ • • The American Clinic is one of the best, with a North American director. There’s also the Clínica Isabel la Católica.
MOTION PICTURES • • • Municipal Theater, Monje Campero, Tesla, La Paz, Miraflores, Avenida, and others.
MUSIC • • • Famous musicians can be heard in the local theaters. There is the Bolivian Symphonic Orchestra. Also on some holidays the natives play their music in the stadiums or public places.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS Newest in La Paz is Maracaibo. El Gallo de Oro, the best, is a few minutes’ taxi ride from downtown. Good orchestra for dancing. Milano near the Sucre Palace Hotel, has a small orchestra and dancing with supper. The Sucre Palace Hotel has a new bar and cocktail lounge.
PHOTOGRAPHY • • • Black-and-white still film is available. Color film is generally difficult to locate. Cameras and equipment are available in local shops, hut all items are expensive. Developing facilities, limited to black-and-white still film, are of good quality. note: All visitors receive a declaration to cover their camera when they enter Bolivia. This declaration must be kept and presented to the Customs inspector to allow such visitors to depart from Bolivia with their camera.
RELIGION • • • There are many Catholic cathedrals. Churches of other denominations include the Seventh Day Mission, Evangelist, Emmanuel, Ebreos.
RESTAURANTS - In La Paz the Club Peruano has good picantes, also pheasant, partridge, fish and an extensive selection of German dishes. Daiquiri is famous for its parrillada, mixed grill over charcoal. Steaks and such at El Gallo de Oro. Milano, the newest, has Italian specialties.
SHOPS AND STORES • • •The shopping center is the Calle