Comercio. La Paz. Shops offer vicuña coats, alpaca, gold and silver jewelry, filigree work, porcelain. The Central Market is held daily, but the Sunday market on the Plaza San Francisco is the most colorful. The markets are run by native women who wear those fantastic derby hats. Calle Sagarnaga is the Street of the Indians, and here everything imaginable is for sale. Everywhere you will find Ekeko, the Indian god of good luck. He comes in plaster with a load of household items on his back and a bright knitted cap.
SPECTATOR SPORTS • • • Soccer, football and basketball are played in the stadium at Miraflores.
SPORTS • • • There are fine trout streams. Lake-trout fishing here is gaining world renown for some of the world’s biggest rainbows; the record is 37 pounds. Skiing is excellent near La Paz, but. over 17.000 feet above sea level. There is a new golf course, Mallasilla Golf Club, with grass greens and fairways, about one-half hour from downtown La Paz. Tennis is popular. Hunting and shooting are good in the Yungas and near Cochabamba. There is big-game hunting in the wilds of Eastern Bolivia (twice weekly air service to Concepción).
TIME . . . One hour later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . No tipping for taxis. To porters, Bs 50 per each bag. Messenger boys, Bs 50. There is 10 per cent for the service charge added to your hotel bill.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Applicable only to air transportation, equivalent to 1 Vi per cent of transportation cost within the country.
TRANSPORTATION. . . There are plenty of taxis around La Paz and they are inexpensive. There are several lines of buses between the central city and outlying areas, but they are crowded and unpleasant. Autocarries are a form of bus.
WATER ... It is advisable to drink bottled water throughout Bolivia.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Vicuña coats and rugs, alpaca, gold and silver jewelry, especially the jointed silver fish. Porcelain, handloomed blankets and rag dolls in native costumes, gold filigree, the little god Ekeko, colored shawls and woven hats.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In La Paz it is cool in the morning and the late afternoon. Take suits and dresses such as those worn in the United States in the fall. A topcoat is an absolute must. And it is wise to take a topcoat when starting out for a day’s trip. The mercury is temperamental in this city in the Andes and takes frequent and unexpected dives, so have a warm bathrobe, bedroom slippers. A hot-water bottle is a good idea, too. The same rules of dress apply to men. wool suits, topcoats, sweaters.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING
La Paz ... In and around La Paz the Indian market is a must. The cathedral is one of the largest churches in all South America. A trip around the city is interesting (each section represents a stage of history) to see its various architectures. You don’t have to go anywhere to see snow-capped Illimani, the mountain which towers over