Pan Am introduces 3 new ways to fly the world.
Some of the people who fly with us can afford the best service in the world. Others simply want excellent service at the best price in the world.
Because we fly a whole world of different tastes and styles, we’re introducing three new ways to fly the world.
The Last Word in First Class
Our First Class service has been refined to a new level of perfection, surpassing even our best traditions. In Pan Ams long range 747SP aircraft we offer a new First Class service with Sleeperetfe® seats that recline to 60 degrees, plus comfortable footrests and extra leg room. Passengers also have the option of choosing a special table-for-two dining arrangement, making our First Class just a little more “ first” than anyone else’s.
On our regular 747 fleet (the world’s largest) we will continue to offer our exclusive upper deck dining room, and the spacious seating and gracious service our First Class passengers have always enjoyed.
ClipperXlass
For the business traveler, or anyone who flies regularly, we now offer Pan Am’s new Clipper Class, featuring upgraded service and amenities that can make an important difference to the long distance flier. All for the regular Economy Class fare.
Economy Class with all the Frills And for those whose schedules permit them to fly on reduced fares, we’re offering our Full Service Economy Class—with more low fares to more places than anyone, and with no reduction in service from the present Economy Class level.
Pan Am is offering three new ways to fly the world because everybody in the world ought to have at least one.
Stretch out. Our exclusive Sleeperette® seats on the747SP flights recline to 60 degrees for reading, enjoying stereo music, or getting a good night’s sleep. With extra leg room and adjustable footrests, you’ll arrive refreshed and relaxed.
First Class dining is elegant on Pan Am’s 747SP’s, featuring superb international cuisine served on fine china with vintage wines, to be savored in privacy, or in the warm ambience of our optional table-for-two seating.
Of course our passengers will continue to enjoy our exclusive upper deck dining room on our regular 747 fleet.