and $3.50 tourist class collected at all seaports. Embarkation airport taxes are 4 or 5 francs for European countries, 15 francs for others.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are plenty of taxis but at peak hours are often difficult to find. It is advisable always to notice whether the taxi you hire has a meter. Unmetered cabs often charge exorbitant rates. Between 12 and 2 p.m. drivers won’t take you anywhere except in the direction they are going. They are usually going to lunch. Taxi drivers are as volatile and excitable as ever.
After 11 p.m. taxi rates are doubled. Consult your driver before you go anywhere, because at night clubs and theaters fixed-rate cabs are waiting. There are stands for cars for hire near most of the hotels. These are more expensive than ordinary cabs. Travel — first class recommended — métro (subway) at least once. There are buses all over Paris too. You must queue up for these. Métro and bus operating hours, which vary, are posted on each station.
WATER . . . It’s safe to drink. There are plenty of bottled waters, Perrier, Evian and Vittel, that are still or sparkling.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Clothes, of course, from one of the great designers, if you can afford them. If you want the very latest, don’t buy dresses anywhere but at top shops or couturiers. Fashions have a 2-year patent in Paris. Shoes are not a good buy; they are apt not to be right for American feet. Paris hats are special, lingerie, blouses, gloves} laces, china, Lalique glass, Daum crystal, cognac and champagne are all cheaper than at home. Made to-order girdles are wonderful. Perfumes are amazingly inexpensive. Prices are standard in all stores. The handbags and umbrellas are excellent. Costume jewelry is low-priced, too. Furs are better at home. Hermès’ engagement and address books are standard gifts for a man. For men there are also hand-rolled handkerchiefs, lisle socks, ties, wallets and fishing reels.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Your newest, smartest clothes—what you would wear in any large city at home. You’ll need a raincoat, a suit, walking shoes, evening clothes if you plan any gala night life. Men should dress as in any city. Women going to the Riviera should take their newest sports clothes, evening clothes and a fur jacket, beach clothes. Men need slacks, sport shirts, bathing trunks and robes. For skiing, what you would wear at a good resort at home, or buy your ski things abroad. Ski equipment can be rented at most resorts.
Paris . . . There are various ways to see Paris. You can do it on your own and discover things, or you can go on a guided tour which will probably save you time but won’t give you the same feeling of working things out for yourself. You can hire a cab or walk and explore to your heart’s content. Walk down the Champs Elysées from the A c de Triomphe; you will pass some famous! restaurants and hotels. Midway is the Rond Point and from there to the place de la Concorde you may walk down a tree-lined avenue to avenue Gabriel, where you find public buildings, including the Presidential Palace and the American Embassy. At the place de la Concorde you’ll encounter the Crillon and the Marine Ministry. About two blocks away is the Church of the Madeleine. Notre Dame is on