stores are Printemps and the Galeries Lafayette. Aux Trois Quartiers and Samaritaine Capucines are smaller but excellent. For linens there is Grande Maison de Blanc. The shops on the rue de Paix are magnificent. The rue Royale, avenue Matignon, Faubourg St.-Honoré and cross streets near the rue Royale, the rue St.-Honoré have the smartest specialty shops. And now the big couturiers have opened what they call “boutiques” in which ready-to-wear merchandise and accessories are offered at far lower prices than in the custom salons. The Bon Marché is on the Left Bank. Don’t miss the Swiss Village antique market near the Eiffel Tower, or Marché aux Puces, the famous Flea Market, reached by métro to the porte de Clignancourt; open every Saturday through Monday.
Department stores are closed Mondays, except during the Christmas season. Beauty shops are also closed Mondays. Some shops close during August, when many Parisians take their vacation.
SPECTATOR SPORTS.. . Horse racing goes on almost all year at one track or another near Paris. Soccer is popular at the Parc des Princes and at Colombes Stadium. Tennis tournaments and championship matches take place at Stade Roland-Garros in the Bois. Boxing matches are frequent. Basketball games during the winter.
SPORTS . . . There is a new, elegant golf club at St. Nom-de-la-Bréteche; fine courses also at St. Cloud (card necessary), also at St-Germain, Chantilly, Mortefontaine, etc. There is skiing in the French Alps and the Pyrénées in winter. Yachting, swimming, fishing, golf, riding all along the Riviera, Deauville, Biarritz, and good fishing in Brittany.
THEATERS ... In Paris: The Comédie-Française, one of the most famous theaters in the world, is open all year except in August. Grand opera may be heard all year except during August at the Opéra. The Opéra-Comique has light opera. The Folies-Bergère is the mecca of many Americans and there are numerous music halls, such as Casino de Paris, offering variety shows which you can enjoy without understanding French. Buy your seats from a broker; it saves wear and tear. Performances at 8:45 p.m. Matinees Thursday and Sunday at 3. See music for a listing of concert halls.
TIME. . . Noon in Paris is 6 a.m. in New York.
TIPPING. . . One franc is about equivalent to a 25<p rip in the States. In addition to 12%-15% service charge at hotels, the b; gage porter expects 1 to 3 francs; room service waiter, average 50 centimes per trip; chambermaid, average 25 centimes per day; doorman 50 entimes to 1 franc for getting taxi, concierge aver:e at least 2 francs per day if you’ve made much use of his services. Most tourists leave something for restaurant waiter beyond 15% serv'ce compris added • to check. The sommelier you consult in wines gets 1 or 2 francs, ¡•checkroom and washroom attendants, 40 or 50 centimes, theater ushers 50 centimes to 1 franc. Tour guide gets 1 franc for short tour. Beauticians and barbers 15%, usually included in bill; taxi drivers about 15% of meter reading, minimum 40 centimes.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Port taxes of $10 1st class, $6.50 2nd class