Pau is an interesting city with a fine bridge, public squares, a great castle—now a museum famed for its tapestries—in which Henry IV was born, and a renowned boulevard with a gorgeous view facing the Pyrénées. Pau is a starting point for tours of the Pyrénées.
Nîmes and Arles, old cities where Roman ruins may be seen, are on the route to Marseille and the Riviera from the Pyrénées or Carcassonne.
The French Alps... The French Alps extend south from Lake Geneva to the Riviera. Some of the best skiing in Europe is found here and some of the most breath-taking scenery. Mt. Blanc towers over the towns of Mégève and Chamonix. From here you may visit the Mer de Glace glacier, take the highest cable car in the world (12,605 feet) or go to Le Brevent with its astonishing view of the whole chain. Grenoble is both a ski and glove center. Some of the most famous gloves are made there, and some of the best skis, those designed by Émile Allais, who also runs the popular Courchevel winter resort. The French Alps contain nearly 30,000 guest houses and hotels from the ultrasmart to the very simple.
A fashionable watering place is Aix-les-Bains in a valley in the heart of the French Alps. The spas here are famous. And here is the famous revolving solarium. The Splendide is the top hotel. Annecy, a little to the north, is a quaint and charming resort.
The Riviera . . . Here is France’s playground, the famous Côte d’Azur. The French Riviera stretches from Toulon to the Italian border and is dotted with famous spots: Nice, Cannes, Menton, Beaulieu, Cap d’Antibes, Juan-les-Pins, St-Tropez, and, of course, Monte Carlo in the principality of Monaco.
Nice is the largest of the Riviera resorts. It has the Promenade des Anglais, a famous pre-Lenten Carnival, some fine hotels: the Negresco, Ruhl, Plaza, Splendid, Atlantic, West End, Westminster and Beau-Rivage. Out of town, but with a superb view, is the Hostellerie de la Reine. Single rates at the Negresco and Ruhl are $11.14-$21.86; double, $14.64-$27.02. Single rates at the other hotels are $9.30-$ 11:30; double, $13.50-$ 16.50. Not so large, but smarter and more frequented by the International Set is Cannes, its yacht-dotted harbor sheltered by green hills. There are wonderful hotels, luxurious branches of Paris shops, wonderful beaches and two casinos. The beach boulevard La Croisette has the Carlton, the Martinez (the largest hotel on the Riviera), the Majestic, the new Grand and v .hers. There are at least 35 hotels in the town. Between Cannes and Nit“ is Cap d’Antibes, which has the famous Hôtel du Cap with ,the 'abulous pool and restaurant of Eden Roc. The Hôtel du Cap Estel . beautiful romantic spot with its own beach and lovely garden which is ocated off the low Corniche, 1 mile after Eze-sur-Mer. At Roquebrus-c Cap Martin, facing the sea, is Hotel Le Vistaero, all 30 of it? indivi luadstically designed rooms with private baths. The de luxe Hôtel Provençal, built by Frank J. Gould, is at Juan-les-Pins.	,
There are, however, less swank and equally beautiful resoits along the Riviera: St-Tropez, St-Raphael, Sainte-Maxime, all with wonder-