to Blois, Amboise, Chaumont, Chenonceaux, Chambord, Loches, Luynes, Langeais, Villandry, Azay-le-Rideau, Chinon. During summer months Sound and Light Spectacles are given every night in most of these châteaux similar to those in Versailles. Night trips can be arranged from Paris or from Tours. Some of th& châteaux are furnished in magnificent style; some are in ruins; others are visited for their architectural interest. Azay-le-Rideau contains a kitchen which is a rarity. It has, too, a Fontainebleau tapestry ordered by Charles I for the city of Rome. Villandry is famous for its Spanish Museum, its beautiful gardens. Chenonceaux, one of the most famous châteaux, was given to Diane de Poiters by Henry II. The gardens, ruined in 1944 by bombings have been restored. The château was unharmed.
Blois contains an ornate staircase in its inner court. Here, too, is the death chamber of Catherine de Mèdici, and her private chapel. Amboise is furnished with period pieces, Aubusson tapestries; there is an interesting collection of 15th- and 16th-century armors in the guardroom. Chambord is an enormous place with 365 rooms. There are innumerable turrets and spires, a wall surrounding the gardens and an estate which is the largest in France.
Visit Vouvray while in Tours. Here is where some of the finest wines in the world are made. Visit the vineyards with their acres and acres of grapes. From Tours you should go down to the cognac country, if you are a brandy fancier. Here is the world-famous center for the cognac which takes its name from the city and the region. A little farther on is Bordeaux, which is as famous for its wines as Cognac is for its brandy.
Pyrénées—Basque Region ... In southwest France the Pyrénées stretch from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean in a natural boundary line between France and Spain. On the coast of the Bay of Biscay is Biarritz, a famous beach resort made fashionable by the Empress Eugénie. There are luxurious hotels such as Miramar and Le Palais, a casino, excellent restaurants and a wonderful beach nearby. Not quite so fashionable but smart in its way is St.-Jean-de-Luz, which is less expensive. Biarritz rates are about $25 per day American Plan, if it’s de luxe you want. There are also moderately priced accommodations. Pelote is- a favorite local sport; or you can see a bullfight at Bayonne.
If you are heading eastward to the Mediterranean, you will go to Lourdes, site of the 'mous vision of Bernadette. There are many hotels and pensions hire. The grotto is a national shrine and the Cathedral is con osc i of three churches, built one above the other wuh hundreds o memorial chapels donated by pilgrims to the shrine Nearby are the ■-/'.s where each year thousands of afflicted come to bathe in the hr-';y waters. It is estimated that more than a million people make the pilgrimage to Lourdes each year. Luchon in the Pyrénées looks Irto Spain. It has excellent ski runs and thermal baths. There are dozens of hotels, best of which are the Continental and the Sacaron. Skiing is excellent on Superbagnères, a 6,000-foot peak with the wonderful Grand Hotel at its summit.