the Ile de la Cité. On the Ile, too, the Sainte Chapelle, located inside the Palais dè Justice has one of the most beautiful stained-glass window arrangements in Europe. There are lectures and tours through the great cathedral that are most interesting. See also the Tuileries Gardens along the rue de Rivoli; you can’t miss the Eiffel Tower or the Opéra.
Climb the hill to Montmartre, with its twisting streets and many restaurants and cafés. Sacré-Coeur stands on top of the hill and you get a magnificent view of the city below. Back in the heart of Paris you will want to see the place Vendôme, the rue de la Paix. Take a stroll down the chain of magnificent boulevards: boulevard de la Madeleine, boulevard des Capucines, boulevard des Italiens, boulevard Poissonnière, boulevard St-Denis, boulevard St-Martin, which form a wide continuous avenue of shops and theaters. Go to the Left Bank and take a look at the “Boul’ Mich,” or boulevard St-Michel. The Sorbonne is nearby and the Pantheon. The Luxembourg Gardens and Palace are here, too.
Drive out through the Bois de Boulogne, with its lakes and fine restaurants and bridle paths. It’s charming.
Browse at the open-air bookstalls along the Seine. Take a trip on the river, on the colorful bateaux mouches, and see all the familiar monuments from a different angle. Boat trips are 1 to 2 hours long, and some include lunch or dinner. Visit Les Halles, Paris’ central market, at the end of a long night out, and have onion soup. Pay a visit to the Hôtel des Invalides and Napoleon’s tomb. It is all fascinating.
Versailles—Fontainebleau. .. There are many short trips out of Paris to the environs which are practically musts. Versailles is 12 miles away. Here are the gardens, the Palace of Louis XIV, the Grand Trianon and the Petit Trianon. You can see La Malmaison on this trip, too, the home of Napoleon and Josephine. Fontainebleau, with its Renaissance palace, its formal gardens, is fascinating. You can visit this on a standard tour or go in a cab. Fontainebleau, once a 12th-century fortress, was reconstructed in the 16th century and eventually became the favorite residence of Napoleon. Drive through the 42,000-acre forest. During the summer, in the gardens of Versailles and Fontainebleau there are fountain displays, night festivals with ancient dances, fireworks, etc. These nocturnal performances are a must, and tickets can easily be purchased in most of the travel agencies.
Go to St-Germain-en-Laye, just a short trip from Paris, to see the Royal Palace with its 1 Vz-mile-long terrace. A trip to Chantilly-Compiègne is interesting. The latter is the spot of the German surrender in 1918 and the French surrender in 1940. There is a large palace in the park with a collection of Gobelin tapestries.
At Chantilly there is a huge château set in a formal park.,Chartres is about a day’s trip from the city. Don’t miss the Cathedral of Chartres, noted for its stained-glass windows and Gothic sculptures.
The Château Country... No visit to France is really complete without a trip through the Château Country, the center of which is Tours. The Hôtel Univers or the Métropole are both good here. Make this city your headquarters and then take any of the standard trips