to approximate the American taste. Try purée de marrons, chestnuts cooked with celery, spices and chicken consommé; wonderful snails in garlic sauce and saddle of spring lamb done in white wine with chopped tarragon. There are hundreds of other magnificent dishes and regional favorites. The wines range from ordinary to superlative, depending upon price and taste. They are served with all meals. The French rarely drink water, but you may want to order Evian bottled spring water. Pastries are famous, as are the potages, or thick soups. The French also do well by fish and salads. Milk is usually safe to drink, but make sure it’s been pasteurized and purchased in a sealed bottle.
GAMBLING ... Around Paris there is horse racing at Auteuil, Chantilly, Longchamp, St. Cloud, Vincennes and other nearby spots. The National Lottery has drawings every Wednesday. Nearest gambling casino in Enghien, 10 miles from Paris. Along the Riviera, and at Deauville, of course, the casinos are famous.
LANGUAGE ... After two wars shared by the French with GIs and Tommies, many Frenchmen not only can understand English but can now even understand an American trying to speak French.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING .. . Laundry is touch and go. In some hotels it’s fine, in others it’s very bad. In large hotels you can get your clothes cleaned in 48 hours.
LIQUORS .. . French wines, champagnes and brandies have no peers in the world. Scotch, popular in Paris and on the Riviera, costs $1.20 and up per drink. Wine is still the national beverage, rivaled only by Pernod and brandy, and even an unknown “bar brandy” is better than you often get at home. For bar brandy ask for a fine à l’eau. Pernod is very popular, especially in the south. The champagne name is patented and applies only to wines from the Champagne district, just as cognac applies only to brandy of the Cognac district.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... The American Hospital at Neuilly is the favorite of Americans. But there are many English-speaking doctors. Ask at your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES ... There are numerous cinema houses in Paris. Hollywood movies have French subtitles if the sign says version original. French is dubbed in if the sign reads version française. See newsstand magazine This Week in Paris for movies and other listings.
MUSIC . . . The Paris Opéra and Opéra-Comique are of major importance. Some of the world’s greatest composers and condu. ors |mje French, so there is fine music to be heard all the time. Go.. I m ,sic can also be heard in celebrated concert halls suer ; Salle Taveau, Salle Pleyel and Palais de Chaillot.
MIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ; I ike fo , thii ould take a book in itself. But in Paris take a look at the. Lido h the Champs-Elysées, world-famous for its floor shows. Go about 9. '0 for dinner and to get a good table, which must be reserved in advanc - The Crazy Horse Saloon is a crowded striptease spot. At most nigh; dubs there will be a bucket chilling champagne on your table, but you’re usually not obliged to take it. Look in at Au Lapin Agile in Mont-