interesting to visit in all seasons, but particularly so in autumn and spring.
CLUBS... In Paris: Jockey Club (very aristocratic—difficult to be admitted), International Club, Racing Club de France, Touring Club, Rotary Club, Lions International. Foreign members are admitted. In Nice and Marseille: Propeller Club of the U. S.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS.. . You may find some customs in France new to you. Tickets are collected when you leave trains. It is customary to shake hands when you meet someone and when you say good-bye. In small buildings the elevator will take you up but you are expected to walk down. Look for the minuterie, those buttons you press on each floor to give you 1 minute of light in hall or stairs.
COMMUNICATIONS... A 3-minute phone call to the States costs 59.25F.; cablegrams from 15F. to 24.7F., depending upon the state. Airmail postage to the U.S. is .65F. for postcards; .85F. for 5-gram letters.
CURRENCY... There are 100 centimes in a franc (F.), valued at about 5 to U.S.$1. at official rate of exchange. In many stores you can buy some French goods at a discount by paying in U.S. or Canadian dollars or travelers checks, or by having goods delivered to your plane.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . You may bring in 400 cigarettes, 250 cigars or 4 pounds of tobacco in your luggage, 2 bottles of liquor with seal broken, 2 pounds of foodstuffs. You need a valid passport but no visa for stays up to 3 months.
Two still cameras of different sizes or makes with 10 rolls of film for each and 1 movie camera with 10 rolls of film may be brought in. In currency 750 francs may be taken out.
DRUGSTORES. .. American products available in cities, and there is a genuine American-type drugstore on the Champs Elysées in Paris.
ELECTRIC CURRENT . . . The trend is to 220 volt but some electric current is 110-115 volts a.c. In Paris the current is 50 cycles instead of 60 cycles as in the United States, which will affect the function of electrical equipment with moving parts. Radios, irons, etc., will operate satisfactorily; converter plugs are needed to fit sockets.
VAUNA.. .In Paris, mostly poodles, dachshunds, cats and spar-rov’s.
FLORA... In northern and central France, a wide variety of aif'acti à wild lowers. In the south you will see vines, mimosa;' orange indoli- rees r ,i graceful cypress.
i OD . This ti u volume in itself. French food is famous ever» where sud Paris some of the best restaurants in the world. • Yr ■ in find anything you want to eat in Paris at almost any price yot vish to pay. Lunch can be a 2- to 3-hour affair involving several courses. The cheese is wonderful, hors d’oeuvre are usually superb, sauces are a national specialty, pâté de foie gras is different f ora anything you ve had in tins. Coffee is strong but can be ordered