fui beaches, many with fine hotels and small pensions. Or try some of the smaller fishing villages such as Villefranche, Cap Ferrât and Cap d’Ail. Many hotels reduce rates as much as 20% in winter.
At Monte Carlo there is the Casino, the most famous in the world. This is an enormous ornate building, marbled and mirrored, with crystal chandeliers everywhere you turn. There are several hotels at Monte Carlo, most famous for which is the Hôtel de Paris. There are the Métropole, the Hermitage and the Monte Carlo Beach, all of which are first rate. Along the entire Riviera there is wonderful golf, fishing, swimming and boating. It is a yachtsman’s paradise, but it is fun for small boatsmen, too; there are water skiing and underwater fishing. In the winter there is skiing about 25 miles inland from the beaches. There are fine restaurants along the Riviera. La Bonne Auberge between Nice and Cannes, La Réserve at Beaulieu and Château de Madrid (on Middle Corniche) are the best. Also try Le Vieux Moulin de Chez Nestou at Cros de Cagnes. The Réserve Montana in La Napoule (see the Henry Clews sculpture museum nearby) is superb and relatively inexpensive, as is Château de la Chèvre d’Or in Eze Village. For a magnificent view of Nice, the Alps and the Bay of the Angels, dine high on a hill at Hostellerie de la Reine, just west of Nice at Place de la Lanterne.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... In Paris, contact the Direction Commissariat Général au Tourisme, 8. avenue de l’Opéra. Also the National Office for Tourist Information, 127, Champs Elysées and at rue Balzac. In other French cities, see the local Syndicat d’initiative office. In New York the French Government Tourist Office is at 610 Fifth Avenue, with branches in other cities.
Semaine de Paris, a weekly entertainment guide and the Paris Weekly magazine are both in English. The Guide Michelin is a must if you’re touring France by car or are a serious gastronome.
Pan Am’s Offices in Paris are at: 138, Champs Elysées and 1, rue Scribe (Tel. BAL. 9200 for reservations—-24-hour service; and BAL. 8800 for Administrative offices). In Nice, Hotel Negresco, 37, Promenade des A ais (Tel. 88-99-11 ).
WHB 'ER YOU GO
YOt* N ED NEW HORIZONS
This vprir covers, in abridge^ form, only one of lOVicou* .ies de :ribed <n detail in Pan American'. ber selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUiDE. T 640-pjge book also includes useful travel tin-,, weather charts, photographs and maps. F up your copy at any Pan Am office or travr igent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.G. Boa jAA, Jamaica, N. Y. 11430. Only $2 in U. S. cutrency or equivalent.
© 196!> i n American World Airways Inc.
Clipper t' d New Horizons T.M. Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
C 115-50 2/65 Printed in U. S. A.