martre, a spot with atmosphere. Drop in at Schéhérazade or Novy and let yourself be carried away by old Russian atmosphere, to the strains of gypsy violins. All famous, all good. Monseigneur and Le Drap d’Or are elegant too. The Nouvelle Eve is extremely popular and has a floor show. Currently in vogue on the Left Bank are such so-called private clubs as Chez Castell, the King Club and Elysée Matignon. If you want to get real low-down, there is always the Place Pigalle in Montmartre with its many, many clubs of varying repute. Among the more reliable spots are Club St-Germain and Le Vieux-Colombier. There’s a nightclub tour available from hotels.
PHOTOGRAPHY. .. Black-and-white and color still and movie films are available in Paris and other big cities; so are cameras. Prices are considerably higher than in the U.S. but include processing. Kodak-Pathé S.A. is located at 39, ave. Montaigne, Paris.
RELIGION. . . France is a Catholic country and there are many magnificent cathedrals which hold Mass. There are also many Protestant churches in Paris: American Cathedral, American Community Church, British Embassy Church, Presbyterian Church, Église l’Étoile; Église de Pass^, Église du Saint-Esprit, Église de la Mission Étrangère, Methodist Church, Quakers, Russian Orthodox Church, Grande Synagogue. And in Nice, the beautiful Church of the Holy Spirit, the only American Protestant church in France outside Paris.
RESTAURANTS. . . It is always possible to find a good little out-of-the-way spot, undiscovered by tourists, which has magnificent food and ‘cheap prices. However, here are some of the better known in Paris (most are very expensive; always best to reserve a table) : Maxim’s (also known for its meals on Pan American’s first class Clipper flights) is very elegant. Dancing every evening, formal dress on Fridays; closed on Sundays. La Tour d'Argent, Le Grand Vefour, Lasserre, Lapérouse, Taillevent and Laurent are outstanding. Prunier, Le Méditerranée and Drouant specialize in seafood; Androuet in cheese; Pharamond in tripe. Other restaurants with regional and foreign specialties abound. Doucet has three locations, good and not expensive. Consult the Michelin Guide for well-known restaurants in all price ranges. Food at de luxe hotels is generally excellent. For homesick Americans there are the Champs-Elysées Drugstore, two Pam Pams and the Pub Renault, all serving cheeseburgers, salads, milk shakes and the like. Pavilion d’Arta .onyille and Pré Catelan in the Bois de Boulogne are delightful for lunch or dinner in summer. Over on the Left Bank is La Coupole, beloved in the 'twenties and still doing business. Harry’s New York Dar, famous among generations of Americans, is still at 5 rue Daunc^L, nnu the Café de ¡a Paix continues to be the crossroads of Paris. The Ritz Bar. recent) y redecorated, is a favorite meeting place of Americans (men •• •ast wear tie and coat in the Ritz). There are sidewalk cafés everywhere you 'urn whcic it is possible to sit for hours reading, writing letters, or just watching people go by while the saucers pile up. Two' long-popular Left Bank cafés are the Deux Magots and the Flore in the heart of S*. Germain des Prés.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . The two biggest and best department