as does La Scala in Milan; the latter appears in Florence, too. Foreign companies appear occasionally. The International Ballet Festival, held in July at Nervi on the Riviera very near Genoa, features outdoor performances- by leading companies in a superb setting.
BANKS ... In Rome, the Banca del Lavoro, near PAA’s office, represents the major U.S. banks. Others are the Bank of America and Italy, Largo Tritone; American Express, Piazza di Spagna 38; Thos. Cook, Via Veneto 9-11. Large local banks include the Banca Commerciale Italiana and the Banco di Santo Spirito. Banks and most hotel cashiers cash travelers checks at the official rate minus bank charges.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS ... National holidays are January 1, April 25, May 1, June 2, November 4; religious holidays January 6, March 19, Easter Monday, Ascension Day and Corpus Domini, June 29, August 15, November 1, December 8, 25 and 26. Detailed lists of events are available. See sources of further information.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes cost about 65 cents per pack. Take in as many as you are allowed. (See CUSTOMS REGULATIONS.)
CLIMATE . . . Rome is pleasant the year round, but there is a rainy season during the winter months. April to November are months usually filled with sunny, warm days, which by midsummer turn quite hot. Climate in the rest of Italy varies from very warm to freezing. It depends on where you go and at which time of the year.
CLUBS . . . Lions Club, Rotary International and American Club.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Dinner hour is late and so are opera and theater performances. The chaperone is still in good standing. When visiting churches, men wear coats; women should have a head covering, wear stockings and dresses with sleeves. Never go to a church in slacks. For an audience with the Pope, women must wear dark, long-sleeved, high-n^-V dresses or a suit, a hat or veil. Men should wear dark suits. If you ¿be not a Catholic, you need not genuflect or kiss the Pope’s ting, behavior which is mandatory for Catholics. Business closes down at 1 p.m., reopens about 4. Offices are open until 7 p.m.
v b : b bj;. ' . . . Telepncne service is not as good as in America; for a long-distance call, one must make a reservation in ad-v^ *ce. Telephone, cable, radio and mailing services are available in e/ery hotel and in the various phone and post offices. Airmail rates for letters to the United States are lire 120, for postal cards lire 95. it saves time to let the porter or concierge send your cables.
CURRENCY ... The monetary unit of Italy is the lira, worth out 620 to the dollar. For exchange, consult banks or your concierge .and avoid sidewalk money changers. Italy has legalized operation of t'ne camlro or authorized private exchange office.
CUSTOMS .REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS NEEDED •OR U>TrEDz^ATES CITIZENS... You’ll need a passport, no vt?s*. Va-. Ir	--ogby^te for re-entry to the United States. You
inaAfJ ■ -<• ’ uiifi- -liars <*ud lire. About 400 cigarettes, or 500