grams tobacco, one open bottle of liquor. No restriction on food or liquor when leaving, but you may take out no more than 50,000 lire. One still camera with 5 rolls of film and one movie camera with two rolls duty free. No restriction on portable radios if for temporary import only.
DRUG STORES... Most American products are available in the bigger farmacie, which are roughly similar to the American drug stores. The profumerie, or perfume shops, carry familiar cosmetics and toiletries as well as perfume and souvenirs.
ELECTRIC CURRENT... Italy is in the process of standardizing its current. Large areas already have 110-120 volts, A.c., others have 150-155 volts or some other current. However, American-made electric appliances are very popular in Italy, and everywhere one is able to purchase small transformers or rectifiers good for the local type of current. Plugs have prongs that are round, not flat. Therefore a converter plug is needed.
FOOD . . . Pasta, of course, is the national staple; and this means not only spaghetti and ravioli but pasta of all sorts in an amazing variety of sizes and shapes. Despite everything you’ve heard, you won’t find much garlic in typical Italian food. There are innumerable risotto, or rice, dishes mixed with peppers, chicken, meat, fish, onions and spices. Pizza, of course, is famous. This is a baked cheese and tomato open-faced pie. Antipasto, the Italian hors d’oeuvres, is much the same in Rome as at home. Veal is a favorite meat and scaloppine is familiar to everyone. The fruits, vegetables and salads are excellent. Beef is generally good. Polenta, a favorite in northern Italy, is worth trying. This is a porridgey dish of corn meal served mostly in native restaurants in the country. The northern Italians cook in butter. In the south they prefer oil. Italian cooking is rich, saucy and spicy and infinitely varied, so take it easy the first Tew days. Romans eat far morp ^n Americans, especially at lunch.
Caffè espj is the bitter, strong coffee especially brewed in espresso mactrnes. Rube Goldberg contraptions which use forced, compressed steam to make the coffee. Milk is available in any milk shop, hotel, restaurant.
GAMBLING... There are Casinos at Venice, San Remo, St. Vincent (Aosta Valley) and at Campione near Como. Pari-mutuel betting at horse racing, trotting and dog tracks. Weekly Governine ot-run lotteries, too.
LANGUAGE ... You won’t need to know Italian to get around easily in Rome or in the other principal tourist centers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... Laundry is wonder : and fast; Italian laundresses do careful pressing on lingerie and shk n It is advisable to select your dry cleaner carefully. Dry-cleaning fa cilities are available in all hotels or in dry-cleaning jshops. The prices are somewhat higher than in the States. Be sure to inquire about the available delivery time before'leaving yo1 r
LIQUOR ... Italian wines are famous ai ' < wTt Viowr are Chianti, Frascati and Soave. Valpolicella .-e t -1	^ qjc4. \ ifiefv