agree on restaurants. However, one should try Passetto’s, the Biblio-teca del Valle, Capriccio’s, George’s, Ernesto, Tor Fiorenza, II Grifone, Meo Patacca (a 19th century tavern), Chianti, Giggi Fazzi, Horti Di Galatea, Fontanella (famous for game), Jim Jerry’s Fuau, Scoglio Di Frisio (Neapolitan fish restaurant) and for the unique experience of dining in an authentic ancient Roman setting—Da Pancrazio, Tav-erna Ulpia or Pompeiian-decorated Apuleius on the Aventine Hill. Don’t miss the Hostaria dell’Orso. It’s reputed to have been the hotel where Dante stayed in the 13th Century; the food is epicurean. Try all three Alfredo’s. There are countless little worthwhile restaurants and trattorias, especially in the old parts of Rome.
Hamburgers, ham and eggs and other American fare can be found in American style luncheonettes and restaurants such as Jerry’s, the California, the Colony and the New Madison House.
Outdoor cafes are all over, since the Roman drinks innumerable small cups of espresso coffee. Try Doney’s, Cafe de Paris and Rosati's on Via Veneto for a coffee, ice cream or cocktails.
In summer you’ll dine outdoors on the Hassler Roof, at La Cisterna, Romolo or Galeassi in Trastevere, at Tre Scalini on Piazza Navona, the most beautiful square in Rome, and at Palazzi, the magnificent villa of Mussolini’s mistress, Clara Petacci, about 20 minutes from the center by taxi and overlook ng ail of Rome.
In Rome and in all of Italy eating is a fine- art and not to be hurried, so plan to take it leisurely and enjoy yburself. The price for a meal in a restaurant goes from a minimum of $1.50 to a maximum of about $6. Service is usually included in the check.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The main shopping center is formed by Via Condotti, Rome’s Bond Street, Via Frattina, Piazza di Spagna and Via Sistina. Specialty shops in this area display a mouth-watering array of beautifully made gifts, clothing and accessories (See what to buy). English ;s spoken everywhere. Stores close at i p.m., reopen from 4-7:30 p.m. in winter; in summer 4:30-8 p.m.
The closest thing to American department stores in Rome are the-Rinascente, Piazza Colonna and Piazza Fiume; and CIM, Via XX Settembre, but they are far smaller than those in America. Prices ate reasonable. Rome is otherwise a fairly expensive European city.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . - Horse shows, football, yacht races,' speedboats tests, motorcycle races, golf, tennis tourneys, water pc’. There are several tracks near Rome for flat racing and dotting r-' : .
SPORTS .. . There are fine beaches for swimming through Italy. Best beach resort near Rome is Fregene. There is skiing at rJeD miniiio, IV2 hour drive from Rome. (Also in Taormina, Sicily, aiDOif course in the Dolomites.) You can fish at Rieti, near Termini) kt, s the small resorts near Naples, throughout the Apennines and Deo mites, and all along the Italian Riviera. Marveloui swihiimi c GW skin diving there, too. There are many good golf co&fses? i v- kV courts wherever you go in Italy. The Rome golf co rkels t- * . . santa and at Olgiata are open the year round,'"-’fld ■ u •	.\‘	•
reached by streetcar. There is a bar and resl-ai ->.n? <_	.