Hadrian’s Tomb, a short walk along the River Tiber; you don’t need to be reminded of St. Peter’s, the Colosseum, the forums; take a ride out the Old Appian Way, see the catacombs; gaze upward at the Palazzo Venezia, where Mussolini held forth on the balcony; the three Basilicas: S. Maria Maggiore, St. John Lateran and St. Paul’s-Outside-the Walls.
See the Holy Child in the Church of Ara Coeli. Look at the Quirinal Palace, former home of the popes and kings; the Holy Steps (Scala Santa), the grave of the poet Keats, the Pantheon, relic of the Roman Empire, built in 27 b.c., the Circus Maximus, where the first chariot races were run; the Roman Capitol; the statue of Moses by Michelangelo in the Church of St. Peter in Chains on the Via Cavour.
See the famous Roman baths of Caracalla; the Spanish steps at the old church of the Holy Trinity of the Hills which lead to the Piazza di Spagna; the Capuchin Chapel on Via Veneto; the old bridges over the Tiber, and you can't miss seeing the enormous white-and-gold monument to Victor Emmanuel II. You can spend days and weeks and still not see it all.
Vatican City ... is a state within a state ruled by the Pope. Each year thousands of pilgrims from all over the world throng to Italy for religious events here. The Vatican has its own railway station, power lines, radio station and printing plant. Here stands St. Peter’s, largest church in Christendom. The treasures, the works of art are innumerable and breathtaking. Over the entrance is the famed Giotto mosaic. Inside the size will awe you; the nave is 151 feet high. The Treasury of St. Peter’s contains the Cross of the Emperor Justinius, Charlemagne’s robes, jewels and other treasures. The vaulted dome is by Michelangelo, and there are tombs of the Popes by Bernini and Canova. Take the elevator and climb 700 steps to the peak of the dome and survey all of Rome.
The Vatican itself is next, the residence of the Pope. The famous bronze doors are guarded by the equally famous, brilliantly uniformed Swiss guards. The Vatican museum may be visited from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Most beautiful of all its treasures is the Sistine Chapel with Michelangelo’s great masterpieces. Visit the rooms filled with magnificent painting, statuary, robes and tapestries-. You need more than one visit to savor it all. Properly accredited visitors may attend group audiences with the Pope by calling the North American College (Teh 672.256).
Side Trips . . . Half an hour’s drive from Rome are the vast pic turesque ruins of the Emperor Hadrian’s Villa. A little farther on is the Villa D’Este with its world-famous fountains. Half-day tdijrs both places run daily, cost $3.20. Sixty miles north- along -the.' se.4 road are the painted Etruscan tombs of Tarquinia, uniqueST AfiftoC world, dating back to the 5th and 6th centuries b c. 155 fall? 53858® of Rome is Cassino, the American battle, eld, p d .	• i%"«	■ -
the beach of Anzio. North of Rome you come tC* A ;. ITr-th of St. Francis, and the Basilica with	“it? ,	N- TiTy