on the island of Torcello. If you have time, visit Murano and the Venetian glass factories. Cross the Lagoon by motor launch to the Lido, the famed beach resort, with its excellent hotels: the Excelsior, the Grand Hotel des Bains, the Lido Palace. Everyone rents a cabaña and lazes in the sun. There is a casino, too. The Feast of the Redeemer, held on the third Sunday in July, is a great festival here.
In the area there are several cities, Padua and Verona, for example, which will interest particularly lovers of Shakespeare. Nearby is Vicenza, with magnificent Palladian villas and theater.
Italian Riviera. . . The stretch of Ligurian coast from Savona to Ventimiglia is now officially called the Riviera dei Fiori (Coast of Flowers). Most important resort in this region is San Remo, which has luxurious hotels, a casino, and all the attributes of a fashionable playground. Here, as on the French Riviera, you may ski just a few miles from the Mediterranean, at Mt. Bignone, which is reached by cableway. There is a golf course, too, halfway up the mountain. Genoa, about 4 hours away, is the birthplace of Columbus. Visit Staglieno, the monumental cemetery. Beyond are famous Rapallo, Santa Margherita Ligure and Portofino, an international-set favorite, famous for its seafood. There are hotels and pensions. Excellent fishing, swimming. Continuing south (3V% hours by car) you come to Pisa with the leaning tower, the superb cathedral with its “Lamp of Galileo,” and the famous Campo Santo burial ground, as well as fragments of an Etruscan wall, bridges over the Arno and a citadel.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... The official Italian tourist office is ENIT (Ente Nazionale Industrie Turistiche) with offices in New York (626 5th Ave.), Chicago, New Orleans, San Francisco, and in Italy at major points of entry. In addition, each i ovince and many of the larger towns have their own Tourist office LPT—-Ente Provincial Turismo). Folders in English, maps, lists of : ¡cal events, hotels and restaurants are available. One can also get t.'<s inform n in r.•—t hotels. (Inquire about the Italian Tourist Economy ! «•’. by v ' touasts get special discounts during the w:nter mor -n) At ti AA office in Rome, pick up a copy of the vA city ip. Pan A. arican has offices in Rome, Via Bissolati, 46 I T 4701'’ ); and in Milan* Torre Velasca (Tel. 897803).
k .0U GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
iis reprint covers, in abridged form, ily one of 96 countries described in etail in Pan American’s best-selling, 4EW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box !)11, New York 17, N. Y. Only $2 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
Clif-e'cn J Ni wH 4z«r : ade Marks ’an Aire-dear War'sJ Airways, fnc. 25M.I.63