him. There are excellent guided tours in tourist buses traveling on circle itineraries. These buses have sliding roofs, radios and public address systems, hostesses who speak English, bars, desks, reading lights. The circle takes in Milan, Genoa, Florence, Rome, Naples, Cassino, Perugia, Bologna; Verona and Venice. You can start anywhere and go as far as you like. See the Etruscan Gate in Perugia-the National Picture Gallery in Siena.
Florence ... This city—“the cradle of the Renaissance”—(146 miles north of Rome) is one of the most visited in Italy. Stay at the Excelsior, Grand, Anglo-Americano, Astoria, Majestic, Roma, Savoy or at one of the city’s many comfortable pensioni. Dine at the Baglioni Roof, Oliviero, But:a Lapi, Buca di San Ruffillo, Da Zi’rosa, Giovacchino, Paoli and Sabatini restaurants. Visit the Palazzo Vec-chio, the Loggia dei Lanzi, under which is Cellini’s “Perseus.” See the Cathedral, or Duomo, of colorful marble, housing Michelangelo’s last statue. You'd see the Campanile (bell tower) and the great art galleries containing astonishing examples of Renaissance painting and sculpture; the Uflizi and the Palazzo Pitli. Here you will see Flemish, Spanish and German masterpieces, as well as Italian.
Visit the Church of Santa Croce, with the tombs of Machiavelli and Michelangelo; the Church of OrsanmLhele with its Donatello statues; the Palazzo Ricea-di. residence of the Medici, with the Medici ha^ei ~on am’Pg fabulous frescoes of the Nativity by Bgnozzo Goz-7,oil, the Pqp e Vecchio, rhe bridge across the Aiw LneYw n ’ ops. id .was spared in the war but everything around it suffered. The area has. how: been almost completely rebuilt. Visit the Bobolt Garden*, whiqh have inspired murals in Italian restaurants the world over.. Save e:.ergv by hir, e.an English-speaking guide if your time is short. You’ll need *\ 01 .fee days or more to do justice to the city. There is ;-■riforination Please” at Via Tornabuoni 10. which pro-.	•	, nurses and guides and also gives free shopping
he	'Naples dominated by Vesuvius is famous
:i cr'1" ..rid. Naples suffered great damage in
Menaggio, an hour’s ride from Milan, is one of the picturesque towns on Lake Como, most famous of the Italian lakes with the Alps in the background.
Eighteen centuries ago the “castle” in the background was built as the Emperor Hadrian’s Tomb—is now part of the Castel Sant’ Angelo in Rome.