THEATERS . . . Many theaters in Rome and Milan. Performances, except for occasional visiting companies, in Italian at 9 p.m. Tickets $2—$5.
TIME . . . Six hours later than U.S. Eastern Standard Time. No daylight saving time observed.
TIPPING . . . Station porter gets 100 lire per bag, taxi driver 10% of meter reading and the 150 lire surcharge after 10 p.m. (minimum 100 lire). Hotels add 10% to 20% service charge. Extra is expected: chambermaid 100 lire a day or 500 a week, doorman 50-100 for taxi, luggage porter 100 minimum, breakfast waiter 100, head porter 10% of his separate bill, barbers and beauticians 15%-20%, restaurant and night-club' waiters 100 per person above 15% service, night-club head waiters 500-1000 per party, hatcheck 50-100, washroom attendant 50, shoeshine boy 15, movie ushers nothing, theater ushers 50-100, car-park attendants 50-150 (same to the helpful souls who insist on guarding your car on street), museum guides 20-50, coffee or wine café waiter 10 minimum.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are streetcars and buses in Rome, and many taxis (surcharge of 150 lire after 10 p.m. and for extra luggage or taxi ordered by phone.) Motor buses are excellent. Auto rentals are available at about $12 a day. Trains are good, first and second class, especially first- and second-class sleepers.
WATER . . . Safe in tourist centers; bottled waters are available.
WHAT TO BOY . . . Tortoise shell, amber, cameos, silver, handbags, men’s ties, Florentine leather, straw and embroidery, olivewood boxes, gloves. Borsalino hats, Italian silks, custom-made shirts for men and blouses for women. Italian tailors are wonderful, too. Rosaries, crosses and religious statuary abound in Rome. Perfumes are not good buys in Italy. Don’t buy fountain pens from street vendors. Avoid the antique and old painting racket.
High fashion for women has become very important in Italy. There are lots of fashion houses which are comparable to those in France, also boutiques featuring original accessories and sportswear.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In spring, summer or fall in Rome wear lightweight clothes such as you would at home. Prints, dark sheers are acceptable. Rome is a dressy city, so don’t appear in slacks. You’ll need a couple of pairs of good walking shoes; you are abound to walk a lot in Rome. Men need sport jackets and slacks, lightweight suits. Women will need evening clothes in winter, and warm clothing, perhaps furs. For men, a dinner jacket, a topcoat or other warm coat.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING ...
Rome . , . Volumes have been written about what to see in Rome . . consider this merely as a check list. There are several guided tours museums and art galleries and other points of historical interest. ' <	... ehig tours are available at any tourist office and can be booked
>i> -ia	t .• concierge of the hotel. The average price for a full-day
w . >r u. * -Y . 000 ($4.50). If you prefer to do it on your own. he«.* : >, Tqrt	. s- .fiery, the Capitoline Museum, the Gallery of
,Y«o	. -a	Vatican Museum (see Vatican city),