the war, and the city and its people still show the effects. The best hotels are the Excelsior, Vesuvio, Mediterraneo and Royal.
The main reason for going to Naples these days is to go on its side trips. Pompeii, with its fabulous ruins, is only a half hour away. Two hours away from Pompeii are Sorrento and Positano and the famous Amalfi Drive, which is cut into the side of the hills. From the drive you see spread out the tiny fishing villages and the bay. You can visit the summit of Vesuvius with a guide.
Capri. . . Most famous resort near Naples is the Island of Capri, celebrated in song and verse. Here are the well-known Blue Grotto, the flower-laden villas, the small beaches, the walks along the cliffs. Drive to Anacapri, a charming village with a picturesque square. There is a good hotel here, the Caesar Augustus. In Capri try the Quisisana or Morgano Tiberio. Buy rope-soled shoes, scarves, cotton skirts and fishing shirts. Take the funicular to Marina Grande, the fishing village where you get a boat for a sail into the Blue Grotto. Lie in the sun on the beach at Marina Piccola. Relax and enjoy the beauty. You’ll see lots of famous people here. It’s a gathering spot for the international set.
Venice . . . (slightly over one hour from Rome by air) is the stuff of dreams. It is romance, beauty, an idyl. The Mecca of tourists for more than a hundred years. Venice is built on a series of small islands at the head of the Adriatic Sea. Its main “streets” are lagoons and canals on which float the romantic gondolas, the motor launches, the canal barges, the ferry boats. There are, however, streets and bridges on which pedestrians may stroll.
Venice was in her glory during the Middle Ages when her ships controlled the richest trade routes in the world. Her decline began in the 16th century, but her renown as a romantic, beautiful spot continues. You’ll want to see the Basilica of St, Mark in famous St. Mark’s Square, where everyone feeds the pigeons. Si. Mark’s was finished in 1500 and is a magnificent example of Byzantine architecture. The interior is lined with fine mosaics. St. Mark’s Square also has the famous Clock Tower, which tells not drily' the hours but the daily position of the sun and moon. See the Paiace bf the Doges with its wonderful rooms decorated by sixteenth-century* artists' Pay special attention to the Tintorettos. See the, dungeons. I’he /Campanile, b'4l. to^wetj. dominates the .Square. ;Y ou ean'C&uss/it'.
6^hbr ipdp'offafif'churches in Venice include Ft art liiid Sis. Gio vahhi Und TaOlb: Visit the-privately owned San Grtgano Cloisters': Paia/.zo Rezzonico, with its magnificent eighteenth-centhry rooms; Ca d’Orb- one of Venice’s oldest houses. You will want to take a gondola through the Grand Canal, lined with ucr.b/val palacft. Yqu will pass under the Rialto. See also the Bridge of hb-
Stay at he Gritti, the Danieli, the Grand, the	\ M
Griinwald, the Park, the Luna or Cipriani on the ish:r •	’ 1. f.hr;
Dine at La Tavgrna Fenice, which is tops: worbl-fn-.joo; ;yth'. Bar; Florian’s on St. Mark’s Square whi	- -	-;<:>•••
Colombo, or Al Graspo de UA, fai’C V? cV >;
