every taste and purse. During most of the year advance reservations are a must as demand far exceeds capacity. In Rome de luxe hotels are the Ambassador, Bernini Bristol, Excelsior, Flora, Grand, Eden, Mediterraneo and Hassler. Rate for single room with bath about $1' American plan, including service and taxes. Without meals, about First class hotels include the Cesare Augustus, Dei Congress, Mich angelo, Claridge, Hermitage and Commodore which are new, Metro-pole, La Residenza, Continentale, De la Ville, Eliseo, Majestic, Massimo D’Azeglio, Quirinale, Residence Palace, Savoy and others. A single room runs about $12.50 with meals; $6.50 without. Second-class hotels charge about $9 with meals, and $4.50 without. Rooms without private bath are much more reasonable, usually have hot and cold runmnn water. An extra daily charge is made for heating from about Nov. through Mar. 15. Categories for hotels are fixed each year by law and approved rates are posted or available on request. During the thrift season (Nov. 1-Mar. 1) some resort hotels offer a 25% discount. Not to be overlooked, especially for a stay of 3 days or longer, are the many pleasant and inexpensive pensioni, or private lodging houses. There is no exact U.S. counterpart for the pensioni, some of which offer service and facilities equal to hotels, plus a congenial and less impersonal atmosphere. The Bellavista Milton, Roxy, Santa Caterina, Tea, Texas, Losana, Villa Borghese and Villa Waldorf are among those centrally located. Rates for full pensione, taxes, service and all meals included, range between $5.50 and $9; it is usually possible to arrange for half pensione-. breakfast and one other meal if preferred. Outside the main cities new hotels are gradually beginning to appear in places of tourist interest. Foremost is the Jolly Hotel chain, with about 40 well-equipped reasonable new hotels scattered through Italy, Sicily and Sardinia.
ARTS . . . Italy is the art lover’s paradise. Museum after museum is. filled witn famous paintings and sculpture, tapestries, gold and jewels, ceramics. In the churches and palaces where Raphael, Michelangelo, Titian and the other great artists actually worked, you’ll see their masterpieces in the original settings. Statues, mosaics and other treasures of the ancient Greeks and Romans are superbly displayed in the Lateran Museums, the National Museum (Baths of Diocletian), and the Capitoline Museum, where “The Dying Gaul” and the famous Capitoline Venus are to h: e-und. The Vatican Museums hsStise a vast collection of the art A .ny ages and many peoples: the Sistine Chape! with Michelange. ; magnificent painting of the Creation, the Borgia Apartments and the frescoed Rooms of Raphael. The fascinating art of the Etruscans fills Rome’s'.stately Villa Giulia ■and the Etruscan Museum in Florence. From the : •on.peiian Rooms in the Naples Museum to the world-renowned panning of the Last Slipper by Leonardo in Milan, there is hardly a town to ail liar that cannot boast at least one priceless work of art.
'< The Uffizi Gallery in Florence, one of Hie v.orh' gu-n.
Pitti Palace, the town hall-museums, f S.NnJ . Pens:;! ol C Palace and A uuiemy Gallery in Yer Cv vjfC •*	.a-tsStnc sL
BAIXKT . The Rome Opor.-i Tic *• h-'s	.Ch an''