are many brands of each kind. Gin and brandy are favorite hard liquors. But one must acquire a taste for Italian brandy. Best are Buton Vecchia Romagna and Sarti. Strega is a native cordial which has quite a bite. The average price for a bottle of good wine is just under $1 in a shop. In a restaurant or hotel, of course, one must add the service. Popular American drinks are available in all bars, restaurants and first-class hotels. You can get excellent Martinis in Rome. American whiskey and Scotch cost less than in New York.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are many English-speaking doctors and good hospitals. Rome has the Salvator Mundi International Hospital with American-trained staff.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Most are in Italian but the Fiammetta and the Archimede in Rome show exclusively English or French films in their original versions, as does the Metro Drive-In.
Rome has become a second Hollywood. In the street and in famous restaurants and night clubs you’ll run across many American actors and actresses.
MUSIC ... In this land of Verdi, Puccini, Rossini and Mascagni, opera is a gala occasion: you’ll hear wonderful music and see elegant audiences at their gayest during the winter season at Naples’ San Carlo, in Rome, or at famed La Scala in Milan. In Rome there is open-air opera during Idly and August in the matchless setting of the Baths of Caracalla, and frequent concerts in the Basilica of Massenzio, right in the heart of Te Roman Forum. Also of interest are Musical May in Florence, the International Music Festival in Venice in September, outdoor opera seasons atdhe Campi Flegrei near Naples and in the Amphitheater, at Verona; there are also excellent orchestral and chamber concerts and recitals by world-famous soloists in principal cities during the fall and winter season.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS .. . From October until the beginning of June, Rome’s smartestvclubs are the Cabala (Hostaria dcll’Orso), the Open Gate, Scheherazade, Bricklop’s, the Jicky Club and the new Rancio Grande a short way out of town. In summer, night life goes outdoors, to the Belvedere delle Rose on the Via Cassia, the Villa dei Cesari, the Casina delle Rose in the Borghese Gardens, or to dine and dance on the rooftops of the Eliseo, Ambassador or Residence Palace hotels.
cr PHOTOGRAPHY ... Any photographic material is available i ,• y,y big teivn. Prices are expensive. Film-developing facilities are -Table everywhere. Time for developing is reasonable, quality good. Ft mail your films from Italy. Take them out with you or; go id 4uk S.p.A., Via Nazionale, 26-27, Rome; in Milan, Via Viitor Mfeani, 16; or in Naples, 6-7 Via Marittima.
RELIGION • • Rome, needless to say, is Catholic and is filled »fo- in-agfl'ficicni churches. The church set aside for American Catho-!'■ Santa Susanna, near the Grand Hotel. Other churches are the ¿\y c n C1 i 'h (Episcopal) on Via Nazionale, the English Church ' r Bn«' * . Protestant churches, and synagogues.
\	-	No two Romans, much less visitors, will