HONG KONG
USEFUL INFORMATION
Banks: Open 10-3 Mon-Fri, 9:30-12 Sat. Money can also be changed in the larger hotels, in shops catering to the tourist trade, and at official money changers. Banks include Citibank, Chase Manhattan, Bank of America, and an American Express Office. Citibank extends weekday banking hours until 4 p.m., but closes at noon on Sat.
Mail: Stamps are normally bought at the post office, but in the larger hotels you can buy them from the information desk. On the outlying islands and in the New Territories, some food stores are authorized to sell stamps and collect mail. Mailboxes are cylindrical, 4 feet high, and painted bright red.
Telephone Tips: Public phones are usually painted red. A local call costs HK50<P. Kowloon numbers are prefixed by 3-, and Hong Kong Island numbers are prefixed 5-. Useful numbers:
Pan Am 5-231111	Information 108
Tourist Office 5-244191	Emergencies 999
Airport Information 3-829220
Newspapers: There are four locally-published English-language newspapers in Hong Kong: The South China Morning Post, The Hong Kong Standard, The Star, and the Asian Wall St. Journal. Foreign English-language newspapers are available at lobby newsstands in the better hotels.
Tipping: Tipping is customary. When a 10% service charge is included in any bill, an extra 5% may be left; otherwise 10-15%. Here are some general outlines: taxi drivers 10% of charge, minimum HK30<P; porters, HK$1 per piece of luggage; restaurants, 10-15% of bill; cloakroom attendants, IIK$1 per item; hairdressers, 15%.
Electricity: 200-220 volts 50 cycles AC. Hotels have converters.
Laundry: most large hotels have dry-cleaning and laundry services and will do express jobs if these are required. There are many drycleaners, laundries with delivery service, and laundromats.
Hairdressers: Major hotels all have hairdressing salons. The average cost of a shampoo and set is $30-50.
Photography: All major brands of photographic equipment are available. Both color and black and white film can normally be developed locally (except Kodachrome, which must be sent overseas); most photo processing is finished within 24 hours.
Clubs: Rotary, Lions, and Kiwanis. Other civic and social associations include the Toastmasters, Soroptimists, Skal Club, American Club, Foreign Correspondents Club, YMCA and YWCA.
Babysitting: Services can be arranged through hotels.
Rest Rooms: Facilities are commonly found in hotels, bars, and all transportation terminals. A HK$1 tip to the attendant is usual.
Health: Many, if not all, doctors and dentists speak English. Imported pharmaceuticals and toiletries are readily available and not expensive. Travelers are advised not to drink water from tap except in better hotels.