JAPAN
(from (US$41) double); Aster Hotel, 87 Yamashita-cho, Naka-ku (from US$41 double); and the Yokohama Prince, 3-13-1 Isogo, Isogo-ku (from US$46 twin only).
Izu-hakone-Fuji: Another great National Park stretches southeast of Yokohama to embrace the regions of Izu, Hakone, and Fuji. The first is a rugged peninsula with a great many hot springs and numerous spas.
Hakone: Another great resort area, is the site of the largest open-air museum of modern sculpture in the world. There is a motor boat and a catamaran service across the lake, known as Lake Ashi to the Japanese. But perhaps the most famous iakes of the region are Fuji’s five, ranged in a perfect semicircle around the Sacred Mountain, Mt Fuji. The majestic, 12,000-foot peak is shrouded in snow most of the year. To have seen it is, in a very real sense, to have seen Japan’s loftiest symbol. Hotels in the Fuji Lakes area: Fuji View Hotel, 511 Katsuyama-Mura, Minamitsuru-gun (from US$51 double); theMt Fuji Hotel, 1360-83 Lake Yamanaka (from US$46 double); and the New Yamanakako Hotel, 352-1 Lake Yamanaka (from US$76 double).
Kanazawa: If Fuji is a must for the visitor whose time in Japan is short, Kanazawa in northwestern Honshu offers a rewarding side trip for those who can travel farther for a close look at some beautiful relics of the nation’s feudal past. The town, which grew around its own beautiful castle, has streets lined with ancient samurai dwellings, a Noh theater, and small shops selling the dolls and ceramics for which the district is famous. Its Kenrokuen Park, adjacent to the castle, is considered one of the three most beautifully landscaped gardens in all Japan.
Nagoya-Ise: Modern, industrial, and busy, Nagoya is Japan’s third city, coming after Tokyo and Osaka in both size and commercial importance. Over it rises its stately 17th-century castle, reconstructed after the war and open to the public. From Nagoya excursions go out to the Shinto shrines of Iso Jingu, built in the simplest ancient Japanese style, and traditionally razed every 20 years to be replaced by new ones (the last reconstruction took place in 1973). The Ise area is also known for an unusual industry; it was at Toba Harbor that Kokichi Mikimoto first grew cultured pearls. In Mikimoto Island the visitor can see the oyster beds and watch women divers retrieving gems from the depths of the sea. Hotels in Nagoya: International Hotel Nagoya, 3-23-3 Nishiki, Naka-Ku (from US$71 double); Nagoya Castle Hotel, 1-15 Hinokuchi-cho, Nishi-ku (from US$66 double) and the Nagoya Miyako, 2 Nishiyangi-cho, Nakamura-ku (from US$46 double).
Nara: Designated the first permanent capital of Japan in the year 710, Nara, 15 miles from Osaka, has the lion’s share of the nation’s most ancient and venerable architecture. Among its features are the Kofunuji Temple, founded in the 7th century, the charming Kasuga Shrine with its 3,000 lanterns, a five-story pagoda that is the second highest in the country, a National Museum with an excellent collection of ancient swords, and the Todaiji Temple, which houses the country’s largest Buddha, cast in the 8th century and towering 53 feet high. Nara Park is a deer sanctuary where the animals, unbelievably tame, roam freely