PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
ACCOMMODATIONS
Chinese tourist hotels are comfortable and modern, but everything connected with your stay should be arranged well in advance. The average cost of a room with bath is US$20-22 per night. Accommodations are normally arranged in advance through China International Travel Service offices which provides interpreter-guides, transportation and hotel assignments. Queries may be directed to China Travel Service (Luxing-she) Changan Avenue, Peking—tel: 667-850, or to CTS branches in Hong Kong, Tokyo, New York and Paris. A number of new international-class hotels are under construction and will be in operation in 1982-83, including five Inter-Continental Hotels located in Peking, Shanghai, Canton and two other cities. Until these new hotels are in operation, visitors often must double up on rooms. One irritation is that hotels and even rooms are assigned and often tourists do not know which hotel they are staying at until arrival in the city. Hotels normally used by tourists areHsin Chiao (with a billiards room), Peking Hotel, with some self-service apartments, the Ching Hsi, the Overseas Chinese Hotel and the Chien Men Hotel.
USEFUL INFORMATION
Currency and travelers’ checks (except for American Express and Citibank travelers’ checks, which are not honored in China) can be exchanged by banks or at special facilities installed in some hotels. Credit cards are not acepted. Credit facilities can be arranged in advance for telegraph and telephone calls overseas. Money can also be transferred into China by cable. As for tipping—don’t. Laundry: 24-hour laundry service is usually available at hotels. Photography: Chinese color and black and white film is available, but travelers are advised to take their own supply and to wait until after departure to develop the results. Check areas where you may photograph before you point your camera. Hotels have outgoing telex facilities but not incoming. International telephone calls are often easier to complete than calls inside China. Cable service is reliable. Mail service is fair. Airmail letter to U.S. costs 60 fen (Chinese cents). Hair styling is available but technique and styles are not up-to-date. Shampoo and set costs 1,2RMB, a permanent 2RMB. Health: Use bottled or boiled water and bring a supply of basic medicines. Local medical service are readily available to visitors.
TRANSPORTATION
Taxis cannot be hailed and have a fixed rate. They can be ordered at hotels, the International Club or cab stands. Non-tourists can hire chauffered sedans for about US $25 per day in major cities. The only airline is the China Civil Aviation Corporation. Fares for airline travel inside China are relatively low. Typical air fares: Peking-Shanghai US $110, Shanghai-Canton US $140. Railroads are used as the major crosscountry means of transport, and rates for foreign visitors are higher than for residents but modest by international standards.