JAPAN
beautiful woodblock prints, and the basement boasts an enormous food section. There are fashions for all ages and sizes (they carry larger-than-Japanese wear for Western men). Nippondo Tokei (5-7-5 Ginza) has watches galore. Ando Cloisonné Co Ltd (5-6-2 Ginza) has beautiful samples of this artistic craft in brooches, vases, cigarette lighters, etc., ranging in price from Y2,000 to as much as amillion yen. Mitsukoshi (1-7-4 Nihonbashi-Muromachi) is one of Tokyo’s largest department stores and its most conservative one, highly favored by the Japanese, closed Monday. Takashimaya (2-4-1 Nihonbashi) and Isetan (3-14Shinjuku) are as large as Mitsukoshi. Matsuya 3-6-1 Ginza, Chuo-ku), open 10-6, closed Thursdays, has an excellent housewares department and folk art section. Hayashi is the best-known kimono center. It has three branches: one at the Hilton and two in the International Arcade (4-2 Yuraku-Chuo, Chi-yoda-ku).
SPORTS
There’s abundant golf courses (over 650), tennis, and swimming, though you may need an introduction to the many private clubs. Mountaineering, as might be expected in a country with such rugged topography, ranks high in the Japanese sporting world. Skiing is practiced with enthusiasm in Northern Honshu—Akakura and Shiga Heights have excellent facilities, as have the slopes around Mount Madarao near Nagano—and especially in Hokkaido, center of all snow sports and site of the 1972 Winter Olympic Games. Tenguyama Ski Resort near Otaru is one of the region’s 16 skiing grounds, most of which have lifts and T-tows. For hunting enthusiasts, there are various national hunting grounds set aside by the Government, and rivers offer good fishing throughout the year. In Tokyo, you can watch judo at the Kodokan Judo Hall (1-16-30) Kasugacho, Bunkyoku). Instruction is also available. Karate training is given at theKokusaiKaratedoRenmei (3-3-9 Nishi-Ikeburuko. Toshima-ku—tel: 984 7421) and at the Nippon Karate Kyokai (1-6-1 Ebisu-Nishi, Shibuya-ku—tel: 462-1415).
The great spectator sport of sumo takes place during a series of 15-day tournaments six times a year. You can see sumo 3 times a year in Tokyo at Kuramae Kokugikan in January, May and September. This traditional Japanese wrestling between giants in loincloths, is not to be missed by addicts of the manly art of self-defense in all its exotic manifestations. The KK is at 2-1-9 Kuramae, Taitoku (tel: 851 2201).
WHAT TO SEE
Tokyo: This is the world’s largest city and perhaps the fastest-paced. There are blocks of office buildings as far as the eye can see, expressways, traffic jams, rush-hour mobs in subways and buses. But this modern face, if striking, is only half the picture. Underlying Tokyo’s asphalt jungle exterior are layers of history and unchanging tradition. At the heart of the city is the Emperor’s Palace, set in 250 acres of landscaped grounds and surrounded by a labyrinthine moat. It stands on the site of a 15th-century castle, as remote and serene as any fortress out of