JAPAN
tickets are demanded only for transit stays of 72 hours or less. A smallpox vaccination certificate is required if arriving in Japan within 14 days of visiting Bangladesh or Ethiopia; a cholera certificate if arriving from an infected area. There are no restrictions as to how many yen a visitor may bring into the country, but only Y100,000 (US $150) may be taken out. Leftover currency may be reconverted up to US$3,000 without an official Record of Purchase, a document issued by the bank where the original exchange took place. One may not take out of the country any works of art officially designated as “national treasurers.” Duty-free allowance: 200 cigarettes or 50 cigars or h pound of tobacco; 3 bottles of liquor; 2 ounces of perfume. If you have friends in Japan, bear in mind that Scotch and cognac are extremely expensive, and take advantage of the allowance to bring some very welcome gifts.
AIRPORT INFORMATION
New Tokyo International Airport (also called Narita) is 41 miles from the city center. There is an airport limousine bus service to the Tokyo City Air Terminal (TCAT) at Hakozaki (Nihonbashi) in central Tokyo with fare of Yl,900 for adults and Y950 for children and handicapped, luggage included. Buses leave every 5 minutes until midnight. Taxis are plentiful, not recommended for the ride to town because they cost approximately Y5,500 (about US$28). Buses from Narita to Heneda Airport leave every 30 minutes, with fare of Y2,000 for adults and Y1,000 for children. A dutyfree shop and hotel reservation counter complete the facilities at Narita. Japan’s other principal international airport is Osaka, 20 minutes from downtown by limousine bus, about Y210 (luggage included): airport limousine car Y3,000.
ACCOMODATIONS
Nowhere does the traditional Japan meet the modern world so smoothly as in the hotel scene. Tokyo, Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto, and all large cities have modern Western-style hotels alongisde the smaller, colorful Japanese inns which can be found all over the country. Of these, a select 2,000 have become members of the Japanese Ryokan Association—a network of immaculate hostelries where the kimono life is more than a figure of speech; and maid furnishes guests with this most beautiful and functional garment when they take possession of their room. Rijokans will also introduce foreigners to the relaxing delights of ofuno, or the Japanese bath.
For the budget-minded, Japan offers a hotel system that welcomes visitors regardless of age or sex. More than 300 hostels—called Koknmin Shukusha or People’s Lodges—are run by the government and charge from Y3,400 for a bed in a dormitory-style accommodation, with breakfast and dinner included. For more information apply to the Japan National Tourist Organization offices, or call in Tokyo, 437-5361. Another organization, the International Youth Hostel Federation, 1 2-chrome, Ichigaya, offers lodging to members of Youth Hostel Associations abroad. Charges here are about Yl, 150 for a bed or Y2,100 with two meals.