JAPAN
provide the music for the simple allegorical tales, which are spun on a plainly decorated stage. Noh may be seen in a number of Tokyo theaters, including the National Theater; for programs check the daily papers, and for tickets apply at the box office or department store ticket bureaus. Bunraku or puppet plays complete the Japanese theatrical treats. Like the Kabuki and Noh dramas, they are performed at the ultramodern National Theater (4-1 Hayabusa-cho, Chiyoda-ku—tel: 265 7411).
Those who have been exposed to the growing stream of Japanese conductors and instrumentalists who perform in the West will not be surprised at the scope and quality of the concert-going in Tokyo and Osaka. There are no less than six symphony orchestras in the capital itself, among them the Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony and the Yomiuri Nippon Symphony, which perform at the Metropolitan Festival Hall. Opera and ballet companies appear regularly at theHibiya Hall. Films, another artistic export of the country, can be seen with both Japanese and English soundtracks.
The nightlife is just as lively as that of New York or Paris and can be extremely expensive. Duly warned, therefore, a nightclub-cum-carabet setup to try is the Golden Gessekai (3-10-4 Akasaka—tel: 584 1151). The Copocabana (3-6-4 Akasaka—tel: 585 5811) offers music, a floor show, with cover charge of Y4,000. At the Crown (5-6-13 Genza—tel: 5725511), you’ll find the same amenities and similar prices. The well known Passatempo is at the Roppongi Corssing, and Club Morena which has a restaurant, is also in that lively district. J & R is a lively discotheque in the building of its name (5-4-9 Ginza—tel: 572-7381). Mugen is another swinging disco where you can dance until midnight (3-8-17 Akasaka— tel: 584 4481). The hours are late in night spots in the Ginza, Shinjuku (which has the longest nights), and Akasaka sections.
SHOPPING
The wide choice of Japanese goods abroad will suggest, to some extent, the stocks that lie in store back home in Tokyo. Nor are Japanese goods limited to assembly-line products; folk crafts, paintings, and sculpture are there too for the imaginative shopper and memento-hunter. In general terms, the best buys will be cameras and hi-fi equipment (and the best discount area for these is around the Akihabra Station on the Keihintohoku Line), clocks, watches, lacquerware, porcelain, ivory, pearls (Y3,000 up), cloisonne objects and jewelry, kimonos of all types, and contemporary paintings and sculptures (there are 300 art galleries in Tokyo). Gifts for under US$10 might take the form of a lacquered candy bowl (Yl,500 up), a cloisonne brooch for Yl,500, fans from Y1,000 up, and paper goods ranging from paper wallets (Y500) to lanterns (Y2,000). Department store hours 10-6, Mon-Fri; closed on different days; smaller shops may open at 9.
There are many large stores such as Ise tan in Shinjuku, open 10-6 and closed Wednesdays. Quality clothing and accessories are to be found in this large store, which even has a children’s playground on the roof. Its fine arts department on the seventh floor of the main building had