JAPAN
among the cedars, wisteria, and oaks of an enchanting forest. In Nara, stay at the Nara Hotel, 1096 Takabatake-cho, Nara City (from US$50 double).
Osaka: With a population of 3 million, Osaka is, after Tokyo, the leading metropolis of Japan. It is a trading city par excellence, built on the bay of its name and crisscrossed by canals. Its theaters, nightclubs, and department stores—which cluster around the Umeda district—can compare with those of the nation’s capital. Among its tourist attractions are Osaka Castle, built in the 16th century by the warrior Hideoshi Toyotomi, the Temmangu Shrine, established in the 10th century, and the Shitennuji Temple (or Teenoji for short), whose foundation dates back to the 6th century. Osaka is known for many Kabuki and Noh theaters and was the birthplace of the classic puppet plays or Bunraku. In summer the city is the setting for Japan’s leading music festival. Hotels in Osaka:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
New Hankyu, 38 Kobuka-cho, Kita-ku (from US$41)
Osaka Grand,2-22 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku (from US$51)
Osaka Royal, 2-1 Tamae-cho, Kita-ku (from US$66)
Toyo, 3-16-19 Toyosaki Nishi-dori, Oyodo-ku (US$51)
Kyoto: In the course of its 10 centuries as the capital (794-1867), Kyoto gathered unto itself such treasures of art, architecture, and landscaping that it has become synonymous with the very spirit of Japan. Its streets a are succession of mansions, temples, and shrines, presided over by the Emperor’s ancient palace (still used on ceremonial occasions). Among its 1,500 Buddhist temples is the Nishi Honganji, a small city in itself complete with libraries, exquisitely decorated pavilions, two Noh stages, and gardens with mirror-like ponds. Nijo Castle, another former residence of the Imperial Family, is a moated 17th-century structure. For a model of a Japanese rock garden—a veritable masterpiece of raked sand and stone—see the one outside the Ryoanji Temple, or the one by the Nanzenji Temple.
Kobe: This is a beautifully sheltered port on the scemc Inland Sea. Its rotating Port Tower will give the best view of the city, the harbor, and the beautiful backdrop of the Rokko Mountain Range. Kobe’s Ikuta Shrine, another bright vermilion gem, is under the tutelage of the goddess Waka-hirume-no-Mikoto, patroness of the city. On the outskirts is the beach of Suma, with a large sports complex and an excellent aquarium. Hotels in Kobe: the Kobe International, 8-1-6 Goko-dori, Fukiai-ku (from US$50 double); the Oriental, 25 Kyomachi, Ikuta-ku (from US$51 double); and the New Port, 7 Hamabe-dori, Fukiai-ku (from US$51) double.)
Kurashiki: This quiet town off the obvious tourist track is a miniature industrial city and an art center of note. At the Ohara Art Gallery you can see works of El Greco, Corot, Rodin, Gauguin, and Picasso. The Kurashiki Folkcraft Museum shows some 3,500 samples of Japanese craftsmanship, including rugs, textiles, pottery, and bamboo ware. There is an archaeological museum,and an historical museum specializing in 12th-century objects, from musical instruments to household utensils.