JAPAN
Japan’s feudal past. Nearby is the Diet Building, home of the nation’s Parliament; to the east, across Hibiya Park—ablaze with chrysanthemums in November—stretches the bustling Ginza district, lined with restaurants and smart shops.
From the Tokyo Tower you will get a superb view of the city, whose Meiji Shrine and Ueno Park are musts on the excursion list. The first is a pilgrimage center which, though built in the purest Shinto style, dates only from 1920, having been erected in memory of the Emperor Meiji, grandfather of the present sovereign. In the Iris Garden, considered the finest in Tokyo, there are 1,000 varieties of the flower in late May. The Meiji Shrine Outer Gardens are close by. Also known as the Olympic Park, they are the site of the enormous National Stadium, two baseball parks, and the Memorial Picture Gallery. More than a playground, Ueno Park is a vast cultural and artistic complex. Sharing its acreage with temples and shrines are the Art Academy, Metropolitan Festival Hall, Tokyo National Museum, Fine Art Gallery, Tokyo University of Arts, National Science Museum, the Museum of Western Art, and the city’s zoo.
Honshu: This largest of four islands that make up Japan is considered its mainland. It has an area a little larger than that of Great Britain and contains 34 of the country’s 47 prefectures. Mountains abound in the southwestern zone, from the peaks of Nikko National Park to the scenic Fuji district. Stretching across this region are cities rich in history, art, and architecture.
Nikko: There is an old Japanese adage that runs: “Never say kekko (splendid) until you have seen Nikko.” It could not be more true. In this Alpine region 93 miles north of Tokyo is found some of the finest religious architecture of the Japanese people. Chief among these treasures is the 18th-century Toshogu Shrine, vermilion-lacquered and decorated with intricate carving. Sharing Toshogu’s idyllic setting in the Nikko National Park is the Rinnoji Temple, the Futaarason Shrine, the elaborate Daiyuin Mausoleum, a five-story pagoda, and other monuments to Buddhist piety. A drive to Lake Chuzenji along the twisting Irohazaka Highway will reveal spectacular panoramas of this mountain, whose Kegon Waterfall and Dragon’s Head Cascade should not be missed.
Yokohama: As Japan’s leading port, Yokohama (population 2.6 million) is the gateway to the nation. It has many attractions of its own, among them the Sojiji Temple and Monastery, one of the largest Buddhist centers in Japan. The city’s Sakneien Gardens are also worth a visit; laid out in the classic Japanese style, they enclose a graceful pagoda, the Rinshunkaku Hall—a fine example of domestic architecture of the feudal era—and the Choshukaku Pavilion, a ceremonial teahouse also dating from the 17th century. No visit to the Yokohama area would be complete without a trip to the Kamakura, if only for a look at its famed Daibutsu or Great Buddha. This magnificent 13th-century statue, 39 feet high and 96 feet in circumference, portrays the great master in prayerful repose. Hotels in Yokohama: Empire Hotel, 700 Matano-cho, Totsukaku