JAPAN
Newspapers: Foreign newspapers, including many in English, are available in Tokyo. The city has four English-language dailies of its own: the Asahi Evening News, the Japan Times, theMainichi Daily News, and the Daily Yomiuri.
Tipping: It is not the custom to tip in Japan, and, with few exceptions, a tip is given only for extras or out-of-the-way services. Exceptions include porters at airports and train stations, who are given Y100 and Y200 per piece of luggage respectively. These are charges, rather than tips. Rental-car drivers usually receive up to Y1,000 per day. Taxi drivers are tipped only if they have rendered some special service—certainly if they have given a hand with the luggage. Restaurants and hotels add a 10-20% service charge to their bills, and their staff, including porters and hairdressers, require no tipping.
Electricity: 100 volts 50 cycles AC in the east; 100 volts 60 cycles AC in the west. Hotels do not usually have converters.
Laundry: Express-service laundry and dry-cleaning facilities available at major hotels. Shirts are almost always starched unless you specify otherwise—the phrase is nori irranai.
Photography: Equipment and film can be found in all Japanese cities. Color film can be developed in 3-4 days, black and white in 24 hours.
Clubs:In Tokyo there are branches of the Rotary Club (tel: 436-6651); Lions International (tel: 271-7061); Kiwanis (tel: 242-0637); YWCA (tel: 264-0661); YMCA (tel: 293-1911).
Babysitting: Two agencies in Tokyo are the Tokyo Domestic Service Center (tel: 584-4769) and the Shibuya Employment Agency (tel: 463-9141).
Rest Rooms: Facilities can be found in department stores, restaurants, coffee shops, bars, etc., though the tourist should be warned that some are used for both sexes. Toiretto (or O-te-arai) is the general word.
Health: Many doctors and dentists speak English. There are imported pharmaceuticals in drugstores as well as excellent Japanese products. The water is safe and you can all eat all the fresh fruit and vegetables you want.
TRANSPORTATION
Tokyo has a bus and subway service, though the uninitiated would do well to abstain during the unbelievably crowded rush hours. Both are, however, a quick and inexpensive way of getting about. You pay cash on public conveyances with a minimum fare of Y80 on the subway, Y100 on Municipal subway, Y110 on the bus. Books of tickets can be bought from the Japan Travel Bureau (1-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo).
Traffic is dense and drives on the left. Taxis are readily available—hail one in the street. No tipping unless, as said before, the driver has rendered some extra service.
Japan’s railroads are among the finest in the world, with such showcase trains as the “bullet” super-express from Tokyo to Osaka and on to Hakata, which clips along at 130 miles an hour. The Japanese National