PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
WHAT TO SEE
Peking: Among the modern buildings and party slogans are the wonderful historic monuments for which Peking is famous. In the center of the capital is the golden-roofed Forbidden City with the many Imperial Palaces, including the Palace Museum, and just to the west lies a string of beautiful lakes surrounded by terraces and marble balustrades. In front of the Palace Museum is Tien An Men square, with the balcony from which Chinese leaders preside over parades. Just outside Peking is the Summer Palace, with lovely pagodas, pavilions, temples, and courtyards, and other attractive hills decked with lakes, pavilions, and terraces.
Destinations other than Peking are opening rapidly. Tours ranging from four to fourteeen days are being offered from Hong Kong to Shanghai, Hangchow, Canton, Nanning, Suchow, Kweilin and Sian. At present these are restricted to tourists who arrive in Hong Kong and make arrangements through China Travel Service or one of its local agents in the colony. Bookings must be made well in advance. For information, contact Pan Am, Alexandra House, Hong Kong, tel: 5-231111, or Thomas Cook Overseas Ltd., Gammon House, Hong Kong, tel: 5-235151. Pan Am also offers special tours of five key cities in China with connecting flights via Tokyo and Hong Kong. As only a small number of such tours are authorized at present, please book well in advance. Air flights within China are by CAAC, China’s national airline with Pan Am handling connecting international flights to Tokyo and Hong Kong.
Shanghai: Perhaps the world’s most populous city, Shanghai boasts 16 million people in its metropolitan area. China’s busiest port, it famous for its Bund, the heart of the former foreign concession area. More cosmopolitan than most Chinese cities, Shanghai has a number of well-kept parks, theaters and historic sights. Shanghai cuisine, slightly peppery, is world-renowned. City has 9 hotels for visitors with about 2500 rooms but new hotels, including an Inter-Continental Hotel are under construction.
Canton: Gateway city of south China, 80 miles from Hong Kong by rail, Canton is uniquely different from north China. Visits to well-kept Taoist temples and to Changshan University, named after the birthplace of Dr. Sun Yat-sen, the father of modern China, are recommended. Canton is jamed during the month-long Trade Fairs held twice yearly (April 15-May 15, Oct. 15-Nov. 15) when thousands of foreign businessmen flock to the city.
Hangchow: One of China’s traditional beauty spots, Hangchow has long been a resort retreat for the nation’s leaders, including the late Mao Tze-tung. Extensive lakes dot the city’s suburbs, complete with delightful arch bridges, choice restaurants and inspiring visitas. Tours are restricted because of a severe hotel room shortage at present.
Kweilin: A delightful resort city in the hills, Kweilin is famous for its karst mountains and excellent weather. It is one of the resort areas being developed by China both for foreign visitors and its own citizens.
Other trips: The 4,000-mile-long Great Wall of China, began 2,500