HONG KONG
would rather watch—and bet—will find horses running twice weekly October-May at the Happy Valley Racecourse and the new Shatin Race Track in the New Territories.
WHAT TO SEE
Hong Kong: A train ride to the top of the Peak is a must, it will give you a superb view of the city, harbor, and outlying islands. The Peak district— an exclusive suburb dotted with mansions—is itself worth a visit. The heart of the downtown section is the Central District, with its banks, shops, and office buildings. To the east, along the waterfront, is the colorful Wanchai area of Suzie Wong fame. Tiger Balm Gardens, a public park built by the promoter of a patent medicine of the same name, has bizarre Chinese sculptures and, in its Haw Par Mansion, a remarkable collection of jade. For tickets to the latter, apply at the Hong Kong Standard (635 King’s Road, North Point). On the opposite side of the island is Aberdeen, known for its houseboats and floating restaurants. Not far away are the beaches of Deep Water Bay and Repulse Bay. For guided tours, call the Tourist Office at 5-244191.
Kowloon and the New Territories: This is the leading industrial zone of the colony and, paradoxically, the doorway to the rural peace of the New Territories. The center of Kowloon itself (the name means “Nine Dragons”) rivals Hong Kong across the harbor with its shops, neon signs, and heavy traffic. Especially bustling is the Tsimshatsui district, site of the Ocean Terminal, a modern complex of 100 shops built beside a 1,200-foot pier, and the new adjoining Ocean Centre complex.
The New Territories, though adjacent to Kowloon, are administered separately. The Kowloon-Canton railway cuts across them, and a ride to the Chinese border is an excellent way of getting acquainted. Along the way is Shatin, home of the Temple of the Ten Thousand Buddhas. A popular spot to view the People’s Republic of China is LokMaChau, not far from Fanling and overlooking the farmlands of the People’s Republic of China.
Macao: This city has the distinction of being the oldest European settlement in the Far East—and bears it proudly. A Portuguese territory on the Chinese mainland, Macao is linked to Hong Kong by hydrofoil or jetfoil and ferry services and offers the visitor a striking glimpse of 16th-and 18th-century splendor, Portuguese style. Its baroque churches, splendid old mansions, and cobbled streets are charming reminders that Macao is, in effect, a bit of southern Europe at the doorstep of mainland China. Among the landmarks are the significant Governor’s Palace; the facade of the Church of St Paul, built in the 16th century; the steepled Cathedral; St Dominic’s , St Augustine’s, St Lawrence’s, and St Joseph’s. They and the older shuttered, arcaded houses around them could be transplanted without difficulty to northern Portugal or northwestern Spain. But Macao does not lack excellent modern hotels. The Lisbon (Avenue Dr Oliveira Salazar) has 400 rooms, swimming pool, sauna, and eight restaurants, including a theater restaurant and nightclub (from US$25 double). The Estoril (Avenue Sidonio Pais), another leading