PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Chinese food is unique; each region in China has its own distinctive cuisine, and many of these can be sampled in the capital. Chinese food, using rice as its staple, is well represented in restaurants all over the world, and typical dishes such as steamed rolls and the delicious clear soups will be familiar to most travelers. Fish, especially shellfish, and pork are the most common additions to rice, frequently accompanied by sauce—sweet and sour, curried or spicy. One of the best restaurants in the capital is the Ting Li Guan at the Summer Palace. The famous Peking Duck is served at the Quan Ju De and the two Bian Yi Fang’s. The International Club has Western and Szechuanese food—very spicy. Tang Chun Yuan specializes in Kiangsu dishes. The best French cooking is at the Peace Caffe in the Dong Feng market. All hotels have restaurants serving European as well as Chinese food. An average meal costs about 5 to 10 yuan, (about US $3). A full table for 12 runs about 120RMB or US $78 for a magnificent 10-course Chinese dinner in Peking. Smaller parties usually are seated with other diners at the large, round tables, a delightful way to meet the Chinese people.
ENTERTAINMENT
Movie houses predominantly show Chinese films, with no accompanying subtitles. Theaters stage modern and traditional works, including Peking and Cantonese operas and even occasional western ballets such as Swan Lake. Acrobatic shows are popular entertainment and worth seeing. Major cities have regular Concerts. The most exciting time to be in the capital is on National Day, when the streets and square are packed with singing crowds, many in national costume, and bands playing spirited national music. At the Summer Palace, the Working People’s Palace of Culture, and the city parks, there are ;almost continuous performances of opera, acrobatics, ballet, music, puppet shows, folk singing, and dancing.
SPORTS
Sport is greatly encouraged in China, and the facilities are made available to visitors. Soccer, basketball, volleyball, ping-pong, gymnastics, and Chinese boxing and fencing are all popular spectator sports.
SHOPPING
The best buys are porcelain, jade, rubbings of Tang dynasty works of art, and small antiques. Nothing older than 150 years can be exported. Scrolls are quite inexpensive and make attractive gifts. Tung an Men TaChien is a good street for the shopping tourist, and antique shops in Liu Li Chang are worth exploring. Pai Huo Ta Lou is Peking’s biggest department store. Never bargain in shops, stores, or markets as prices are set.