PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
isolation have left China something of a country apart, a country of mystery. Now this giant of life and history is opening up again to visitors and to trade, and more people are going there, not just statesmen and businessmen. China is in the process of refurbishing more than 100 tourist destinations around the country and adding a network of new hotels and resorts with an eye to attracting 1 million tourists by the mid-1980’s. Tourists should check in advance which destinations are open and place requests for visits when booking tours. This guide provides basic information to help the visitor in China, though it has not been possible to provide detailed information for the whole country.
COUNTRY BRIEFING
China covers an area of about 3,691,502 square miles with a population of well over 850 million. The capital is Peking, with a population of 9 million. Because it is such a huge country, its climate is fairly wide-ranging, from some of the wildest deserts to the highest mountains on earth. In general, winters are very cold and dry in the north, including Peking, and summers are hot with high humidity. Best time to visit is during spring or fall. In the south, the climate is subtropical, and seasonal variations of temperature are less extreme. Summers are hot and wet, but winters are milder than in the north, and humidity remains high. China is a people’s republic, and of the many regional variations of Chinese spoken, Mandarin and Cantonese dialects predominate. The official language is the Peking dialect of Mandarin. Cantonese is the other most predominant dialect. However, all written languages are mutually intelligible because the writing is ideogentic rather than purely phonetic. The Pinyin romanization system has been inaugurated which renders place names and personal names different from what many visitors are used to seeing. Peking, for example, is now Beiking, Canton is Quang-zhou, Tientsin is Tianjin. Shanghai remains Shanghai. Mao Tse-tung is now Mao Zedong, Chou En-lai is Zhou Enlai. China is spelled Zhonghua. Your guide can help you understand the new place names. The currency is the renminbi (yuan); 10 chiao = 1 renminbi; 1.54RMB = US$1. Public Holidays: New Year’s Day, 1 Jan; Chinese Lunar New Year, or Spring Festival, Jan or Feb; Labor Day, 1 May; 1 July; National Day, 1 Oct. Time in China: GMT + 8.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ENTRY AND CUSTOMS REGULATIONS
Passport, visa, and round-trip ticket are required, and smallpox vaccination certificate; also cholera and yellow-fever certificates if arriving from an infected area. Importation of foreign currencies is allowed, but must be declared on arrival. The exchange into local currency can be made through the Bank of China or through facilities at visitors’ hotels. Apart from the predictable ban on arms and drugs, be careful about what printed matter you take into China. Antiques and art treasures may not be exported. One still camera and a small 8mm movie camera per family is permitted on entry. Duty-free allowance: reasonable amount of tobacco for personal use.