HONG KONG
inexhaustible variety. There is, however, Chinese rice wine, called shiu king. For beer, try San Miguel,the most popular, and also try a Tsingtao from China, a good light brew. There are several good English-style pubs, including the Jockey in Union House, Bull and Bear in Hutchison House, and Old Vic in Gammon House, all in the Central district. There are no restrictions on the serving or selling hours.
ENTERTAINMENT
There are performances by the Hong Kong Philharmonic and recitals by visiting artists in the concert hall at the City Hall; Chinese opera can be heard at Laichikok—an amusement park in Kowloon—or the Mandarin Theater Restaurant. Films are big entertainment here; Hong Kong makes more films than Hollywood. A local movie house is well worth a visit. Many films are dubbed in English or have English subtitles.
Heading our list of night spots in Kowloon is the Miramar Theater Restaurant at the Hotel Miramar (tel: 3-681111), which provides a floor show featuring Chinese opera against lavish, Peking-inspired sets. Also in Kowloon are the Kingsland Night Club in the Maramar Hotel (tel: 5-681111), the Oceania Restaurant & Nightclub (Ocean Terminal, Kowloon—tel: 3-670181), and The Scene (Basement, Peninsula Hotel, Kowloon—tel: 3-672998), a lively discotheque. In Hong Kong, night owls will find their way to the Macambo (King’s Theater Building, Hong Kong—tel: 5-222295); the Eagle’s Nest or The Den disco at the Hilton; the Captain’s Bar at the Mandarin; or The Bottoms Up Club (14 Hankow Rd., Kowloon—tel: 3-675696).
Shopping
Shops are open 9-6 (or later in some districts) Mon-Sat, and often Sunday too. Among the best buys are silks, ivories, jade, jewelry, and fine tailor-made suits and shirts (remember to allow time for the fittings). There are also imported cameras, watches, and stereo equipment. The shopper will do well to obtain a copy of the Hong Kong Tourist Association’s comprehensive Stop ix Shop. Bargaining is customary, except at large department stores, where prices are fixed. In Kowloon, try the Shui Hing department store on Nathan Road and the Ocean Terminal and Ocean Centre shopping complex next to Star Ferry Pier or Lane Crawford in Central District. The Merchandise Emporium in Kowloon is loaded with bargains, as is the Chinese Arts & Crafts (HK) Ltd (Star House, Salisbury Road, Kowloon), which has a Hong Kong branch at Shell House, Queen’s Road Central. For a food market full of local color and exotic products, try the smaller markets in the Central, Wanchai, and Causeway Bay districts.
SPORTS
You can enjoy golf (at the Royal Hong Kong Country Club or Fanling Golf Course in the New Territories), tennis (at park courts), and riding (in the New Territories); swimming, surfing, and water-skiing are available at the many beaches, especially at Repulse Bay. Those who