JAPAN
Hiroshima: The city that passed into modern history as the first target of the atom bomb has been completely rebuilt, from its ancient castle to its tranquil Sukkeien Garden. Its most famous landmarks are the memorials to the destruction of 1945: the Atomic Bomb Memorial Dome, the Peace Memorial Park, and Peace Memorial Hall, and the Cenotaph for the Victims.
Inland Sea: This is the long narrow body of water between Honshu and Shikoku. A cruise among its pine-covered islands—there are nearly 600 of them—is one of the most beautiful trips-within-a-trip of any visit to the Far East.
In the spring the Island of Shikoku, south of Honshu, attracts thousands of Buddhist pilgrims in their traditional white garments to its 88 Buddhist temples, all of them founded by, or associated with, the 8th-century priest Kukai.
Takamatsu: The second-largest city in Shikoku, Takamatsu offers the tourist in its exquisite Ritsurin Park a fine example of the Japanese art of harmonizing forest, fountains and boulders. Until the reaccession of Okinawa, Kyushu was the southernmost Japanese territory. It is considered the birthplace of the country’s civilization, having served the B.C. 7-century Emperor Jimmu, founder of the Yamato Court in Nara, as his base of operations Given its proximity to the Asiatic mainland, Kyushu has always figured prominently in Japanese history as the hub for trade with Korea and China.
Nagasaki: During the centuries of Japan’s isolation Nagasaki remained the nation’s only contact with the outside world, and even before the bamboo curtain descended about the country, the city was open to Chinese influence. Both its Kodaiji and Sofukuji Temples are known as “Chinese Temples”; the first served Chinese residents of the city, while the second (also founded in the 17th century) reflects the Chinese architecture of the Ming Dynasty. A victim of the atomic age like Hiroshima, Nagasaki has its own Peace Park, laid out on the exact spot where the explosion occurred on 9 August, 1945.
Northern Honshu and Hokkaido are Japan’s Far North and the nation’s great outdoors. The northeastern position of Honshu Island—or Tohoku district—is a land of lakes, mountains, and spas. Across the Tsugaru Strait lies Hokkaido, famous for its snow country and the winter sport facilities which made it the site of the ’72 Olympics’ skiing, skating, and tobogganing events.
Aomori: The gate to Hokkaido is set among apple orchards. Lumber is its principal industry and the charming Kokeshi dolls, carved in wood, one of its traditional crafts. The Lake Towada region, a national park, lies directly south. The S-shaped crater lake with its wooded shores and pine-covered islands is stocked with trout and favored by fishermen in the summer months.
Sapporo: A neat city of over 1 million and the center for the 1972 Winter Olympics, it has a university, botanical gardens, and the Ainu Museum among its chief tourist attractions. The latter is of special interest for the light it sheds on the fast-diminishing Ainu, a people of