JAPAN
Railway system (JNR) covers the entire country and runs its own ferry services linking Honshu to various other islands. There are three local airlines: Japan Airlines (JAL), All Nippon Airways (ANA), and Toa Domestic Airlines (TDA). There are also luxury cruises around the islands, the most popular being the Osaka-Beppu route through the Island Sea, stopping at Kobe and several other ports. The 14-hour trip is sponsored by the Kansai Steamship Co. Ltd. Car Rental agencies are to be found in most large cities. Note that international drivers’ licenses are valid in Japan. If you do not have an international license, then you must obtain a Japanese license at the Sanmezu Traffic Police Office, between Tokyo and Haneda Airport.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Japanese food—an endless combination of simple ingredients served in dishes of all colors and shapes—is a delight for the eye as well as the palate. Preparation time is usually short, the flavor deriving from the deft use of vinegar, soy sauce, horseradish sauce, and other quick-acting condiments. Many dishes are, in fact, put together right at the table. The result is food that (though it can be “hot” in the best tradition—watch out for the green horseradish sauce) is light, greaseless, and wholesome.
The dish usually associated with Japan is, paradoxically, a relative newcomer to the country’s cuisine. It is sukiyaki, which came into favor approximately a century ago when the Buddhist strictures against meat eating were relaxed. With a base of beef (cut into thin strips), it is alight, delicious meat-and-vegetable stew cooked in stock and flavored with soy sauce. Another favorite is tempura—prawns, fish, or vegetables deep-fried to golden perfection and served with a variety of dips. Rice is the Japanese staple par excellence and fish the traditional protein food. They combine in sushi, perhaps the most typically Japanese dish of all, which takes the form of rice patties topped by pieces of raw pickled fish. Sashimi, the raw-fish specialty that tops them all, consists of delicate fish fillets treated in soy or green horseradish sauce and garnished with vegetables.
Snack foods abound; chief among them is soba, a hearty, soup-like noodle dish sold in shops called soba-ya. Its variations are endless, all cooked in meat or fish broth and with bits of pork, beef, fish, egg, or vegetables swimming alongside the buckwheat pasta.
Prices vary considerably, reaching the top brackets in the ryoriya class, where the decor, ambiance, and service match the food. Dinner for one in a luxury establishment (Japanese and foreign) will cost around Y12,000 (US$61), in a medium-priced restaurant around Y5,000 (US$41), and in an inexpensive place about Y2,000 (US$10), all prices without drinks. Foreign cuisine is to be found in abundance, especially in the Roppingo district, where French, Czech, and Greek restaurants do a lively business. For those wishing to go native in style, however, here is a brief and far from exhaustive list of the better sukiyaki and steak houses in Tokyo: Akasaka Misono (2-14-31 Akasaka, Minato-ku—tel: 533 3389); Zakuro (TBS Building, 5-3-3 Akasaka—tel: 5826841); Suehiro (6-ll-2Ginza—tel: