200 PASSENGER CLIPPER—1948-9
What Does This New Clipper Service Mean?
“This new fast Clipper service brings Hawaii much closer to the Mainland. It gives to Hawaii added strength economically because it will stimulate travel and trade between the Islands and this Country.
“This new fast service will also create a closer acquaintanceship between the peoples of California, the Mainland in general* and the Hawaiian Islands, advantageous to all.”
INGRAM STAINBACK, Governor, Territory of Hawaii
“It is a source of personal gratification to me, as I know it must be to all people of Los Angeles, to learn that our City will soon be linked by air direct to Honolulu. Pan American World Airways is to be congratulated for this far-seeing and highly important move which brings us to within nine and three-quarters hours flying time of our neighbors in Hawaii.
“With our municipal airport being readied for commercial operations, it will be a relatively short time before citizens of Los Angeles will be able to fly to any point on the globe- from our own City-owned air terminus.
“The day of world understanding, friendship and peace will be close at hand when the people of all cities and all nations are given such opportunities to know their neighbors.”
FLETCHER BOWRON, Mayor, Los Angeles
“California appreciates organizations with the vision and energy to anticipate and provide for the requirements of its people. The new Constellation Clipper service of Pan American World Airways providing as it does expanded air service between the mainland and the Hawaiian Islands will bring the two areas within but a few hours of each other and in so doing will foster improved trade, travel and a better understanding between the people.
“As Governor of California I congratulate Pan American on the inauguration of its new service and look forward to the further advancement already announced which will result from the use of giant Stratocruiser Clipper service. I know it is gratifying to all Pan American World Airways officials to realize that these great steps in their air travel program are now so nearly completed.”
EARL WARREN, Governor,
State of California
“The announcement pleases me immensely and I am very happy that San Francisco will benefit from this improved service which will establish more close relationships with our friends in the Pacific. Naturally it is a fine thing for San Francisco and the Bay Area to be the home port of a line of this type.”
ROGER D. LAPHAM,
Mayor, San Francisco
7