“This faster improved Clipper service, making it possible for air mail to reach the Hawaiian Islands 10 hours after departure, should greatly stimulate trade and travel.”
william h. McCarthy,
Postmaster, San Francisco
“Opening of direct modern Clipper service from Los Angeles to Honolulu by Pan American World Airways will prove a tremendous benefit to all Southern California business and two-way recreational travel.
“It marks a major step forward for this area bringing Hawaii within less than 10 hours from Los Angeles and makes this great City an even more important terminal in international air routes.”
JAMES E. SKELTON, President,
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce
“Between the San Francisco Bay Area and the Hawaiian Islands there has been traditionally the closest of friendships, and now the two great regions are brought even closer together by new speedy airline schedules.
“Postwar aviation is now bringing every part of the world into closer contact for many millions of additional people. We tend to take marvels for granted in this age of marvels, but we should not overlook the great importance of our cultural and industrial future of this closer relationship.
“Just recently the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce was first in the nation to go on record advocating statehood for Hawaii. Now that airline service on twice daily schedules will be available, the Islands are brought that much closer to the United States of which they are politically an integral part.
“Pan American World Airways is to be congratulated for this new pioneering step.”
BRAYTON WILBUR, President,
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
“The Honolulu Chamber of Commerce has consistently advocated increased air service, particularly one of which Honolulu is the chief objective. Recent announcement of Pan American is gratifying in this respect. The material reduction in pas-
senger fares is pleasing, and I trust is indicative of a trend. Measured in time, California and Hawaii are truly neighbors.
“Our congratulations to officials of Pan American World Airways reminds us of our obligations in making Honolulu ready to receive its visitors.”
MERWIN B. CARSON, President,
Honolulu Chamber of Commerce
“The Oakland Chamber of Commerce congratulates Pan American World Airways on the improved service to be inaugurated between the Bay Region and Honolulu March 15. Simultaneous slashing of flying time and fares are the most important advances in transoceanic air travel since its birth in the Metropolitan Oakland area.
“Our Oakland Municipal Airport and Alameda Airport played leading roles in the pioneering of transpacific flying, and we are most appreciative of this improved service and what it will mean to all of us.
“All success to Pan American World Airways in these new and far reaching steps in air transportation.”
GERALD H. HAGAR, President,
Oakland Chamber of Commerce
“Airmail service to Honolulu will be immeasurably enhanced by the new Pan American World Airways Clipper service from Los Angeles beginning March 15 when this City will be linked directly with the Hawaiian Islands for the first time since Pearl Harbor.”
“Moreover, the use of four-motored landplanes will make possible speeding of letters. . . .
“Ever mounting totals of air-post packages will go forward to the islands now that these high-speed land-based airplanes are to be scheduled from Los Angeles directly across the 2560-mile ocean span. . . .
“We vision in the Stratocruiser, “Big Brother” of the B-29 to be placed in service on this route in a few months, the greatest boon to international airmail in history. Los Angeles should take pride in this new link with the Pacific. It reassures the predominant position of this City as the unequalled trade and commerce gateway of the Pacific Coast.”
MICHAEL D. FANNING,
Postmaster, Los Angeles