PARADE OF PROGRESS
Forty-four passenger Clipper service between the Mainland and the Hawaiian Islands with giant landplanes, virtually half flying time, vastly increasing passenger capacity and slashing fares by an initial 30%, was inaugurated by Pan American World Airways on March 15. Services between Los Angeles and the Hawaiian Islands, temporarily sus-
pended following Pearl Harbor, were resumed with the inauguration of Constellation Clippers.
On April 15, only a month later, the schedules will be doubled, thereby providing annual capacity for substantially more than the total number of passengers carried between the Mainland and Hawaii by both sea and air combined in the pre-war years. Within the year Pan American expects to assign to this service new double-decked 80-passen-ger Clippers, the world’s largest and fastest commercial airplanes now being built by the Boeing Aircraft Company. This will mean further reduction in fares and flying times and a vast expansion of capacity over the world’s longest non-stop ocean airway.
On the March
The Parade of Progress started by Pan American World Airways more than 18 years ago is once again on the march. While few people may connect the original pioneering 90-mile flight be-
tween Key West and Havana in October, 1927, with this latest development in long-range ocean flying, that original flight was the first step in the development of the greatest international commercial air transport service in the world which placed the American flag topmost among all international air travelers prior to the war. At that time Pan American was operating air transportation services over nearly 100,000 miles of international air routes connecting 62 countries and colonies throughout the world.
While services between Honolulu and the Mainland were originally inaugurated in 1935, vision, courage and confidence was needed in the years leading up to this epic in world air travel when the original flight over the world’s longest over-ocean route of 2400 miles was made.
Extensive Research and Development
Years of extensive research and development work in the Caribbean Sea and the Arctic Regions —step by step experience—learned the hard way— turned into knowledge, was accumulated. The wheels of progress were moving steadily forward as Pan American strove to provide the American traveling public with the finest in aerial travel which could compete directly throughout the world with ocean-going vessels for the world’s markets. In those early days Pan American set as its goal the providing of mass aerial travel at costs so low the average man and woman could afford them.
In dedicating the transpacific service at Alameda, California, on November 22, 1935, President Juan T. Trippe referred as follows to the vital connection between the Hawaiian and Pacific service
SIKORSKY CLIPPER—1934
3