ing on anticipated economies, resulting from the use of larger equipment, to the traveling and shipping public in the form of lower passenger fares and Clipper express rates.
Subject to military requirements, in order to facilitate the development and ultimate production of modern large fast economical air transports, Pan American placed orders for various advanced types of aircraft which its engineers were helping design for use in the Hawaii-Pacific and its other worldwide services. These included the Lockheed 43-passenger Constellation Clippers which aircraft soonest would be available for the interim period; the Boeing 80-passenger Stratocruiser Clippers which will be available late in 1946 or early in 1947; the 40-passenger 400-mile an hour Republic Rainbow Clippers, delivery of which should take place in 1947; and Consolidated-Vultee 200-passenger Clippers which should be ready for operations in 1948 or 1949.
Parade Continues Forward March
The Parade of Progress with its eye to the future, while slowed down commercially by world war two, was still going forward.
The Constellation Clippers which are now becoming available are being placed in service on a daily basis effective March 15, 1946, approximately four years after the original plan. Fares are being reduced from $278 to $195 each way, a reduction of 30%. The annual passenger capacity of twice daily service with this aircraft is 66,620—1300% greater than the total twice weekly capacity of the Boeing Flying Boat Clippers of 1941.
Larger Clippers—Lower Fares
Late this fall or early 1947, with the delivery of the double-deck, Boeing-built 80-passenger Clippers, this service will again be vastly expanded and annual capacity will be jumped again by almost 100%. Fares will be slashed still more and the schedule will be reduced to 8%> hours from the West Coast to Honolulu, utilizing speeds up to 350
miles an hour.
Pan American service from California to Hawaii will then be equipped to carry 116,800 passengers a year with only two daily flights between the Mainland and Hawaii. This exceeds by more than 50,000 passengers the total volume of traffic between the Islands and the Mainland by both air transport and surface shipping before Pearl Harbor.
The steps in the Parade of Progress are moving fast but they must in order to maintain air transport’s position in the Battle of the Pacific between air transportation and sea travel.
An Eye to the Future
Pan American World Airways, looking still further into the future, has been developing and has on order with the Consolidated-Vultee Aircraft Corporation, 200-passenger Clippers with a gross weight of 320,000 and capable of flying between the Mainland and the Hawaiian Islands in seven to eight hours. The use of these on a twice-daily schedule once again would increase the annual passenger capacity by 2% times that available in 1947 to approximately 400,000 passengers a year or over 7% times the number which traveled by all forms of transportation between the Hawaiian Islands and the Mainland in the peak pre-war year. The inauguration of service with this type of aircraft would further permit the reduction in fares and flying time between the West Coast and Honolulu.
Pan American World Airways is honored to play a part in the great growth of the western part of the United States and the Hawaiian Islands through providing the best aerial transportation American ingenuity can develop and the Americans can operate. The public reaction to its interim plans for use of Constellation Clippers and the effect in the steps of progress that such operations will provide as expressed in the accompanying statements is most gratifying. But only by continual planning, vision, and positive action as demonstrated to date will Pan American World Airways continue to march forward on the road towards its ultimate goal of providing mass aerial travel available to all at the lowest possible costs.
The Green Light Is On
If the Parade of Progress stops, or stumbles, or is permitted to slow down, all concerned will suffer. The Parade of Progress must continue. This new Clipper service indicates the green light is on—the Parade must go on—Pan American will see to it that the best and most economical aerial transportation will be provided between the Hawaiian Islands and the Mainland as well as throughout its other international air routes.
6