Stay at the most beautiful hotels fn ffa WOrld
Now you can—more conveniently and with the special attention you deserve—as a member of Inter-Continental Hotels' exclusive Six Continents Club. Soon after joining Clipper Club, you will automatically receive membership in the Six Continents Club which will entitle you to unique travel benefits and superior service.
First, you'll become one of Inter-Continental Hotels' priority guests. And that means the "red
carpet" treatment whenever you stay at any of our hotels around the world. You'll be pre-registered and a personal courtesy envelope, including a warm message from the Club representative, will be there to welcome you. And you can look forward to receiving a lovely welcome gift—a split of wine... a crock of pàté... a basket of fresh fruit...or a vase of tropical flowers to grace your room. Extra touches to make your stay extra pleasurable!
Choose from more than 80 elegant hotels worldwide, all centrally located for easy access, and designed to provide you with the ultimate in comfort and modern conveniences. Enjoy superb dining in hotel restaurants. And take advantage of the most up-to-the-minute communications equipment, multilingual secretarial services, and complete conference and meeting facilities. It's all waiting for you as an exclusive Six Continents Club member.
and pamper yourself with all of fhese personal travel courtesies.
Priority Handling of Your Reservations.
Six Continents Club members will always receive the highest priority for accommodations —above all other travelers! Although Club membership cannot guarantee availability of rooms, every effort will be made to assist you with your travel plans during peak seasons, and when hotel rooms are difficult to get.
Personal
Check-Cashing
Privileges.
Six Continents Club members registered at any Inter-Continental Hotel may cash personal checks of up to US $100. Simply identify yourself as a member, present your check, and the money is yours. (This privilege is subject to local law and normal identification is required.)
The elegant interior courtyard of the Hotel Inter-Continental, Paris.
Preferential Accommodations Reserved for You.
Club members automatically receive the most desirable room in the rate category requested.
And if by chance a room becomes unavailable at the price confirmed, you will be upgraded to a superior room—or even a suite—at your confirmed rate.
Choice Seating at V World-Renowned Restaurants and Supper Clubs.
Your Six Continents Club membership assures you of a choice table and extra-special treatment when dining at any of Inter-Continental's fine restaurants. Identify yourself as a Club member when making your dining reservations —and you will receive this preferential service.
The newly restored Hotel Inter-Continental, New York.
Personal Executive Hotel Reservation Service.
Planning your stay is most convenient when you take advantage of Six Continents' private Executive Hotel Reservation Service.
A specially trained staff, set up in most major cities, has been assigned to personally handle Inter-Continental Hotel reservation requests from Club members —promptly and efficiently. Just ask for this courtesy when you call to reserve your room.
Exclusive 'W Travel Offers.
You're always apprised of new developments at InterContinental Hotels—as well as important Club happenings—with an interesting Newsletter mailed regularly to you. You'll find each issue filled with special articles, including exciting travel offers available to members only. It's all for your travel pleasure, compliments of Inter-Continental Hotels.
The luxurious Barclay Restaurant
in the Hotel Inter-Continental, New York.