Clipper
Valid Through
JOHN Q MEMBER 1234567A
Distinctive personalized membership card and certificate.

Clipper
Club
William KWaluip ProsWcnt
and Chief Operating Oil (cor

—_
Inside travel information direct from Pan Am.
You'll become part of Pan Am's "one-to-one” communication program with an informative Clipper Club Newsletter mailed to you regularly—including late-breaking travel bulletins, new schedules, and special Club offers galore. You'll find your Newsletter filled with intriguing articles on a variety of topics, ranging from exciting developments at Pan Am...to unique travel tips ...to fanulous hotels and restaurants worldwide. And you're privy to all of this information, free of charge, courtesy of Pan Am.
We'll promptly send you your membership card, embossed with your name, once you have enrolled.
It means that you're part of this elite association of world travelers. And unconditionally guarantees that you, as a bonaficTe cardholder, will be admitted to the hospitality of Clipper Club lounges around the world. You will also receive a handsome silver-tone membership certificate for Annual and 3-Year members, suitable for framing. Or a decorative
gold-brushed certificate plaque for ifetime members. Either certificate will validate your personal induction into this privileged society of air travelers.
Accommodating travel assistance when you need it most.
Clipper Club members are special to us in every way. So you can always count on us to give you special travel assistance whenever you need it.
For example, if you'd like to change your reservations or upgrade your ticket to another class of service, just come to the Club lounge. Our friendly Skippers will gladly take care of every detail for you (in most major cities), while you sit back in comfort, Clipper Club style.
A convenient directory of worldwide Club locations.
You'll also be presented with a handy pocket-sized Club Directory, listing all of the exciting Clipper Clubs across the glooe. Carry it with you wherever you travel, so you can check, at a glance, if there is a Clipper Club lounge at your point of departure and destination.
Handsome embossed luggage tags.
Outstanding Club members will always stand out! Because you will receive an attractive set of luggage tags, embossed with your name and membership number. Rich gold tone for lifetime members, striking silver tone for annual ana three-year members. These durable, handsome tags, impressively displayed on your baggage, will immediately identify you as one of Pan Am's Clipper Club elite.
psg*
áSga?«