Fateful Sarajevo’s minarets and byways
from the outside world, who admire her beauty and sip the famous, rare Tokay wine.
To the Balkan countries of Rumania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia, the Danube is more than a stream of romance and history. It is a lifeline connecting them with the outside world. It is a great, international water highway, driving thousands of mills, carrying hundreds of barges and tugs—fully one-quarter of Balkan trade floats on its waters. Its cargo has included golden wheat and corn from Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria, bauxite ores from Yugoslavia and rich oil from Rumania.
Bulgaria’s scenic values have been little exploited. Sofia, Bulgaria’s capital and chief industrial center, has been practically rebuilt into a modern city since 1878 and has an export trade in foodstuffs, fragrant attar of roses (for perfume) and hides.
Rumania is a country of infinite charm and infinite riches. Like Hungary, it has its gypsies, who delight in music and unique dances. Richly-embroidered clothing and rugs, pottery and handicraft reveal the inherent skill of the people.
Soil is fertile (75% of the people are engaged in farming and stock-raising). Rumania has great rivers, coal, salt, petroleum, gold, iron. Bucharest, "Paris of the Balkans,’’ has skyscrapers, luxurious villas and gay night life.
Yugoslavia is becoming increasingly of interest, partly because of its part in the war against the Axis. The costumes and customs of its peasantry, the Moslem-types of Bosnia, the crimson and gold-clad Montenegrins are among the most worthwhile sights in all the continent. Sarajevo, where the spark that set the world aflame in 1914 was struck, is an interesting tourist stop.
Atmosphere OF THE ORIENT »Agriculture-stock-
raising and crop cultivation—is the principal occupation in Yugoslavia. Belgrade, the capital, has lost some of its Oriental atmosphere with the erection of modern banks, schools, business houses and hotels. Zagreb has been the leading commercial center and is a center of Slav culture.
Albania, although in size smallest of the Balkans, has high mountains and equally attractive blue lakes. Tirana, the capital, is a mixture of modern streets and buildings, and queer Turkish alleys. Although her coastline yields fruits, tobacco, etc., less than 10% of Albania is arable.
The endless fascinations of Central and Southeastern Europe will be only a few hours from the United States via the world-famous Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways.
A patriarch of Rumania
CENTRAL m SOUTHEASTERN
EUROPE
Pan American
World
Sphm of fke^Fltffng Cfipfaers
Built by Boeing
he fascinations of Latin America . . . Alaska’s scenic grandeur... Hawaii’s beauty... Britain’s "Old World” charm ... These and more are only hours away now, thanks to the Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways.
★	In roomy, air-conditioned comfort you can relax and enjoy delicious meals and other complimentary services as you speed between continents at 300 miles per hour.
★	For 19 years Pan American World Airways has been serving the cause of international friendship ... by providing the finest-possible air transportation for all, and by introducing new and improved services.
Pan American Flies to Four Continents
New Flying Clippers include the ultimate in personalized accommodations.
Relax with pleasant companions in the Clipper lounge.