A portrait of CENTRAL and SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE, part of A World of Neighbors
IN EUROPE, a continent is busy building a new community after war.
In years to come the names of the great battles fought there in World War II will rank with Waterloo and the Marne in fame. But as the memory of war fades, the true beauty of these "old countries” again appears.
The peoples of Central Europe have a heritage almost as old as civilization itself. The Teutonic tribes which first overran the country from the north and established their city-states were a hardy race and supplied the background for the European nations of today. Throughout history, the
peoples of Central and Southeastern Europe have proved their talents in the arts and sciences, producing some of our greatest musicians, artists, statesmen and scientists. Even the Germans, whose history has been one of wars, have been leaders in culture when at peace. Germany claims to have given the world many of its first-class composers, philosophers and poets.
While the present-day traveler in Germany may see reminders of the war, there still exist for him the symbols of the old world together with the framework of the new. In Berlin the Kaiser Frederick Museum housed the best
CENTRAL and SOUTHE
EUROPE
of the German, Italian and Dutch masters. Modern housing projects in the suburbs were among the best in the world.
From the precise and militaristic atmosphere of German Prussia, one can turn to the real beauty spots of Germany —Heidelberg, with its old university commemorated in the song, "Old Heidelberg” ; Dresden, home of Dresden china; fashionable Baden-Baden, Queen of the Black Forest (where the Danube rises), a resort with a casino and other recreations; Cologne, with its world - renowned cathedral, and Oberammergau of Passion Play fame, and the rich farmlands of southern Germany. Then too, there is Aachen, Charlemagne’s traditional burial place.
\X^AGNERIAN FESTIVAL • Other cities have their own attractions. Bayreuth, home of Richard Wagner, contains the Festival Play House, where Wagner’s musical dramas have been performed for years.
Before the war Germany ranked among those nations with large industrial capacities, but the attention of the people is now being directed more and more toward agricultural pursuits.
Chopin’s birthplace near Warsaw
Royal Castle in Krakow, Poland
Poland, across whose plains have surged many of the armies of history, has felt the heel of the invader many times, but is still beautiful. She is a land of many rivers
Beethoven Bavarian Alps Oberammergau Warsaw
Castle on the Rhine Steel mills, Silesia Paderewski King Sobieski Copernicus Gdynia
St. Stephan Church (Vienna)
Austrian peasants High Tatra
(Czechoslovakia)
Portrayed on “picture-map’
T. G. Masaryk and Karel Capek King Wenceslas, Prague ‘‘Lidice Lives Forever”
John Huss
On the way to church, Poland
Skyscraper in Bucharest Alpine skier Johann Strauss and the “Beautiful Blue Danube” King Matyas of Hungary Lajos Kossuth, Hungary Czechoslovakian glassware
are
“Csikos”—
Hungarian Horsemen Parliament (Budapest) Peles Castle, Rumania Black Sea Port of Constanta Ploesti oil fields Parliament Building, Belgrade Kolo dance Tirana, Albania Sheep herding Sofia, Bulgaria Dairying Winnowing grain Peasant costumes
Budapest and the Blue Danube
Palace of the Hapsburgs, Vienna
and a large system of Vistula lakes. Her culture is over 1,000 years old. Her scientists and musicians rank with the world’s great. Splendid monuments bear witness to statesmen who have fought to preserve her rights among nations. Krakow, long Poland’s intellectual center, bears many landmarks of historical and artistic importance, including beautiful Gothic monuments, and Warsaw is the center of the political, economic and social life of this nation. Almost everywhere in Poland are richly-adorned church interiors and inviting byways.
Poland, first to fight the aggressor, suffered great losses in World War II. But the Polish people, strong in spirit, are building a new Poland, with an excellent free-school system and an efficient program of social insurance and social security. For those who are pleasure-bent, Poland offers a number of delightful health resorts and a complete line of invigorating winter sports. Zakopane, in the High Tatra, is a skiers’ mecca. In addition there is excellent hunting in the beautiful mountains.
Czechoslovakia • A nation of people who have
struggled for centuries for freedom, was first in Europe to fight for religious freedom. Although not proclaimed a republic separate from Austria-Hungary until 1918, the Czechs throughout history have been brothers in heart and mind, in language, literature and music. They are an artistic people, promoting national theatres and national concert orchestras. They are friendly and delight in good companionship. The country’s beautiful capital, Prague, has a quaintness and charm all its own, yet is ultra-modern with more than its quota of spires, skyscrapers and neon signs. Its outlying villages are charming.
Czechoslovakia contains some of the most beautiful scenery in Europe. Great mountain ranges, valleys, vast forests, famous spas, lakes, subterranean caverns and peasants in bright native costumes make the country of unusual interest to the traveler.
In science, Czechoslovakia has quite a heritage. Among its achievements is that of Mendel who formulated the
basic laws of heredity, and that of one of its early scientists who perfected the lightning rod long before Franklin. Names like "Good King Wenceslas,” Amos Comensky, John Huss and Thomas G. Masaryk are known all over the world as are Smetana and Dvorak, the composers.
Czechoslovakia is highly industrialized, containing approximately 75% of the entire industrial wealth of the old Empire of Austria-Hungary. Many of the industries are large-scale. The main industries are mining (the deepest in Europe is her silver mine, Pribram), steels, textiles and chemicals, heavy machinery, footwear, glass and porcelain. Plzen is the seat not only of the Skoda Works, but also the home of world-famous Pilsener beer (called by the Czechs "Prazdroj”). About 42% of Czechoslovakia is arable land, 33% forest.
Slovakia, with its romantic capital, Bratislava, is a tourists’ paradise. The Tatra resorts are among the most beautiful spots of this romantic corner of Central Europe, with sports, good food, luxurious hotels and friendly hosts.
Austria's capital—romantic, happy, ageless Vienna—on the beautiful Blue Danube is being rebuilt along former lines. Thrones may totter, governments may rise and fall, but Vienna’s romantic waltzes and gay cafes and night clubs go on forever. Of her historic edifices, many escaped with slight damage, including Schonbrunn Palace, which recalls the luxury of the Hapsburg regime, and Stefferl (as her beautiful cathedral is called). Besides Austria’s monumental symbols of past culture, however, the natural beauty of the pastoral country still delights tourists, with green forests, mirror-like lakes and snow-capped mountains furnishing the perfect setting for healthy, outdoor sports. Like Czechoslovakia, Austria has many natural resources.
Thousands used to flock to the Salzburg Music Festival in the shadow of the imposing Alps.
The Hungarian plain, called the "granary of Central Europe,” is one of the most colorful vistas of the European continent. Around its gypsy camps even today there linger the traditions of ancient nomadic tribes. The cowboys of the American Wild West have a counterpart in the Hungarian cowboys (Csikos) who are expert horsemen, and round-up tens of thousands of cattle which were factors in feeding pre-war Europe. New, modern farm equipment, when available, will further reveal the wealth of Hungary’s farmlands, known as The Land of Milk and Honey.
Queen of the blue Danube • Hungary is one of
the countries blessed by the waters of the Tisza and majestic Danube. On the banks of the Danube is Budapest, the proud Queen of the Blue Danube, queer mixture of the old and the new (Buda on one side of the river, Pest on the other). Visitors never failed to exclaim at the sight of Parliament House, like a marble mirage rising fairy-like from the Danube, squares, parks and boulevards, all laid out with an exactness which would indicate that they were carefully planned before construction. But looks are deceiving; Budapest is a modern industrial city yet steeped in all the richness of the past. Picturesque Hungary has long been, and still is, a favorite among the visitors
Copyright 1946, Pan American Airways, Inc.