LAcc'Z,, goy^Q1 ,-T HckrVl

| Pan American \
by
C
LI
P
R
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
First Stop En Route To Mexico. . , YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
Before you make your final vacation plans, it’s a good idea to see your authorized Pan American travel agent. He’ll give you valuable tips on currency, climate and customs . . . and anything else you should know about Mexico. You can make your reservations and buy your ticket through him, too. It won’t cost you any more . . . and you’ll save yourself a lot of time and nuisance with details.
Pan American World Airways
SYSTEM OF THE FLYING CLIPPERS
!«

Printed in U. S. A.
PAD-956-50DR
Wherever You Are. . .
Mexico’s Closer By Clipper
One of the wonderful things about going to Mexico —• whether on business-plus-pleasure or pure vacation — is that it’s so easy to get there, by Clipper. Pan American flights give you swift passage from anywhere in the world.
For example, from the South Pacific and the Orient you can choose either President service, the ultimate in deluxe travel, or thrifty Rainbow service, the finest in tourist travel, and fly by Clipper via Hawaii to Los Angeles. From there swift connecting PAA flights wing you south to Mexico.
Alaska passengers fly Pan American Super “Strata” Clipper to Seattle and convenient connecting lines winging down the coast to Los Angeles. Round-the-world travelers may also reach Central and South American points from San Francisco, Miami, New Orleans, and Houston.
No matter where you’re coming from, your Clipper flight to Mexico will give you a good head start for your sojourn
in this land of relaxation. For cruising high and swiftly on the World’s Most Experienced Airline is restful as dozing
under a sombrero at high noon . . . and much more comfortable.
The trip will seem all too short. For the just-right temperature of the air-conditioned cabin . . . soft-cushioned, reclining lounge chairs . . . delicious, piping hot meals ... all go to make up a truly enjoyable siesta flight to Mexico.
You’ll be rested and ready to enjoy yourself as you settle down into the warm heart of this colorful, friendly country.
Clipper Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Copyright 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.