Houston
New Orleans
Monterrey
Veracrw
Ìhetumai
Guate)
T'a y,,, Pa, AmHoliky ", Fila
K O
Mexico is a colorful mosaic of well-mannered Spanish charm, sophistication and native tradition. Whatever vacation pattern you like best, you’ll find it in Mexico.
In Mexico City itself there’s everything from luxurious hotels and glittering nightclubs to quiet monasteries and hushed museums. You’ll visit La Catedral, the oldest church on the American continent . . . stroll along beautiful Chapul-tepec park, sprawling below a hilltop castle . . . bargain in the native markets for handmade jewelry, pottery and textiles.
Don’t let the noisy bustle of traffic in Mexico City fool you... languid living is the rule because of the 7000-foot altitude. So take life easy . . . and drink in the sunshine and taste the magic of this marvelous old city.
There’s so much to see and do in every nook of this scenic country that — unless you have plenty of time — you’ll have to choose your spots carefully.
LET YOURSELF GO ^ TO ACAPULCO
Of course you’ll be sure not to miss incredibly beautiful Acapulco — it’s only an hour by air from Mexico City. Rugged Pacific headlands surround the oval sapphire bay where you’ll swim and fish and laze in the sun. In the evening you’ll dance to Latin rhythms on high, moon-washed patios overlooking the sea. And you’ll never forget the breathtaking thrill of watching native divers plunging into the white surf below. You’ll understand why
Relaxing under the tropical sun at Acapulco . . . world-famous as a gay, fashionable resort.
The Hotel Reforma in Mexico City —just one of the many swank, luxurious hotels in this modern city.
it’s "been said that fabulous Acapulco is not a place — but an experience.
MEXICO IS TIMELESS
Take the short trip to Taxco, where the early colonial atmosphere of this silver-rich mountain town is carefully preserved in its exquisite, red-roofed houses and twisted cobblestone streets. See the romantic terraced gardens of fashionable Cuernavaca — once a favorite haunt of Cortes, and the pre-Spanish city of Oaxaca.
As you travel through Uruapan, you might catch a glimpse of an eruption of Paricutin volcano. Its effect at night is magnificent.
And for history, Yucatan is unmatched. Here you’ll wander among crumbling vestiges of the lost Mayan civilization . . . and among people who still speak the ancient tongue.
Wherever you go, you’ll find the people friendly, the customs fascinating, and the scenery superb. From border to border, Mexico is colorful as a fiesta ... as thrilling as a bullfight. And a next door neighbor by Clipper.
GUATEMALA AND BEYOND
Besides giving you fast service from anywhere in the world to Mexico, Pan American service extends far to the south ... to beautiful, historic Guatemala, the countries of Central America and on into South America.
m
ROUTES OF THE PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
A colorful Oaxaca feather dancer poses on the steps before the Palace of Mitla.
The Palace of Fine Arts in Mexico City holds famous works like frescoes by Rivera, Orozco and Sequeiros.
TOUR MEXICO ON A BUDGET
Be sure to ask about the many cost-inclusive Pan Am Holiday tours. They vary to suit your time, taste and above all — your budget. The World-Wide Plan — Go Now - Pay Later — lets you budget all or any part of your trip, including hotel accommodations, meals, sightseeing. For as little as 10% down, you can start your carefree tour of Mexico now . . . pay for it in easy instalments after you return ... up to 20 months. You’ll be surprised at the wonderful holiday you can afford!