PANAMA CANAL
— both the
Atlantic and Pacific
at one
Here is a travel high-spot of a lifetime, an air cruise across the Isthmus of Panama over the Panama Canal. One of the shortest air lines in the world, you step from one ocean to the other in twenty-four teeming minutes. Thrill to the sight of both oceans at one time. Below, spread out in all its spectacular wonder, is the great canal; its massive locks, through which are constantly passing steamers from all comers of the earth; Cristobal and Colon; Gatun Locks, The Dam, and lovely Gatun Lake stretching into the foliage-covered tropic hills; Culebra Cut, where a valley was carved through the crest of the Continental Divide; Pedro Miguel and Miraflores Locks; colorful Balboa, old Panama city.
See all the canal—and save hours doing it. This short, interesting flight gives you extra hours to visit the colorful shops of Panama City, of Colon and Cristobal, brimful of unusual and useful things gathered from the four corners of the earth and to be had at alluring prices -—ebony, jade, East Indian jewelry; enchanting perfumes, Persian tapestries and rugs; French, Chinese, Japanese shops.
Time to visit Balboa, overlooking the Pacific. The ruins of old Panama City, through which the gold of the ancient Incas poured on its way to Spain; once the brilliant court of government that ruled half the New World, later to be wiped out by that glamorous old pirate Morgan.
You travel in multi-motored airliners, radio-equipped and in constant communication with their ground control stations; two veteran pilots aboard each plane, and a steward to keep you constantly informed. Broad windows permit unobstructed vision. Broad aisle-ways, so that you may move about the ship at will, assurance against missing any of the wonders of the trip.
These airliners provide twice daily scheduled service, with many extra sections, from both Cristobal (Atlantic side) and Panama City (Pacific side). Twenty-four minutes either way. Round trip can be made in one hour.