OVER THE GULF STREAM . .
X
86 MILES
A perfect, send-off on your Clipper trip to Nassau is the magnificent aerial view afforded you of the multicolored panorama of Greater Miami, North America’s most famous winter seaside resort and a great air travel center of the Americas. Over one million visitors are accommodated annually in Miami’s more than 2,400 apartment houses and 400 hotels, many of which are imposingly	visible along the
shoreline.
A s A7our Cl in-

ner swinos nut x	o
on its course, w XSJjSJt	you look down
on a wide, deep-	blue “River of the
Sea,” the beginning	of the western seas’
warm waterway, the GULF STREAM, which here starts to flow on its leisurely way through the chill Atlantic waters to the shores of Northern Europe. This mysterious current,— 2,000 to 4,000 feet deep is one of the earth’s mightiest physical forces and is caused by trade winds blowing piling up warm tropical waters in the Mexico. Seeking an outlet, these waters through the deep Florida Straits on their mile swing northward as far as Scan-East of the Gulf Stream, the Pan passenger sees the first of the thou-small islands of The Bahamas. balmy islands, numbering more than scattered over 700 miles of the Atlantic Beach to Haiti. First is Gun Cay, ancient pirates and rum-runners. This fleck of land in the blue-green ocean is marked by a lighthouse, to guide mariners from the treacherous shoals hereabout. Southward for about thirty
miles extends Cat Cay, where American sports fishermen come to catch the big ones.
The Great Bahama Bank is next seen, as the plane leaves the curved white beaches of Cat Cay behind on its way toward Andros
Gulf of rush 5,000 dinavia. American sands of These 3,000 are from Palm rendezvous of
Island, largest of the Bahamas. This wide and shallow bank,— treacherous to the mariner, presents pictures of rare beauty from the air; large tropical fish and other specimens of marine life are sometimes visible in the near-	ly transparent water which shows vivid and ,j^imL-iir nrriif^ rirrirr 1—-r	varied
colors, — depending upon the »r	depth and
the effect of the coral, sand or sea-	X1	weed bottom
underneath. On the northern ~~tip of Andros is Morgan’s Bluff, named for	the notorious
pirate, Sir Flenry Morgan, whose cohorts and competitors in piracy are said to have hidden much treasure here. It is now noted as the home of thousands of flamingoes.
The sight of New Providence Island signals the beginning of the end of the flight to Nassau, which is situated at the eastern end of the island. Almost on the course, near the center of the island, is Lake Killarney, one of several bodies of fresh water on New Providence. The Bahamas Country Club, Emerald	^ Beach, the gleaming white
buildings	of Government House, the
light- fjf-ife- . v	house on the western tip of
guard-	j^. ing Nassau’s harbor, are some of
the land-	v ’ > marks you can identify as the
plane f \ v	glides to a landing at Oakes
Field. The	" ....	Island of New Providence is
only 21 miles	long and 7 miles wide, with a popu-
lation of about 30,000. It was made a major base of the Royal Air Force during World War II, when a large military airport was constructed which you will see adjoining Oakes Field where your peace-time Clipper lands.
Here on New Providence Island, the traveler may enjoy leisurely sightseeing with an endless array of diversions. Excellent fishing, sailing or bathing in the brilliantly-hued waters that border the semi-tropical	island are
among the most popular sports.	m Fifty miles
of rambling roads around the	island are
of keen interest to travelers	for cycling
or driving through en-	chanting
glimpses of quaint country-	side flanked
by exotic, flamboyant gardens.	Here hibiscus
oleander, and waving palms vie	with the snowy
white curves of coral beaches. Far from the rush and hurly-burly of the busy world, quiet Nassau offers the traveler an experience unique and satisfying. Now only a little over an hour from Miami by Pan American Clipper, this delightful vacation spot is well within the reach of everyone who wants a holiday of restful relaxation amid the colorful scenes of a typically	x charming British colony in the semitropics.	Splendid hotels and facilities for
golf and	Up* horseback riding are numbered
among the	tourist attractions and (in season)
horse- .	"V& racing is a favorite sporting event.
Once re- " Jw55* served for the socially-elite, Nassau is now a	popular watering-place at all sea-
son s of ■ ;V r the year, and easily accessible via Pan American	Clipper.
Printed in U.S.A. LAD—A377—50M—48