tnought of people who want such a trip and can afford to take it, and you now are prepared to offer them just what they want.
Once they are sold, you are ready to take Step No. 5.
5.	Book your trip.
If you are working with a travel agent, he will make your Clipper reservations for you, request your hotel reservations and other ground arrangements, and help you with passports, visas etc. If you are working with a PAA Sales office, that office will reserve the Flying Clipper space you require and will advise you what to do about passport and other governmental requirements, and you will arrange the hotel reservations and sightseeing services yourself. The PAA office will have information about the hotels available and will be happy to pass it along to you.
When these preliminaries have been accomplished, you and your friends get your wardrobes ready, read up on the country or countries you are to visit, and get set for the day when, all together, you will take Step 6.
6.	All Aboard!
As you board your Flying Clipper at Boston, New York, Washington, Miami, New Orleans, Houston, Brownsville, Corpus Christi, Los Angeles, San Francisco, or Seattle, you will enjoy the thrill of starting a trip abroad with your friends in your group, and the added thrill of having made it possible for all the rest.
Your responsibilities do not cease at this point. On the other hand they are not onerous, either. You are the leader of the group, and consequently its spokesman at the airport, in making connections with ground transportation, at hotels, and on sightseeing trips. Along the way, Pan American will serve you and assist you. Depending upon the character of your tour, you doubtless have plans for lectures to your group by yourself or others, for visits to museums and historical landmarks, or to the market places and water fronts, or the night clubs and other places of amusement.
Upon your return to the United States, you are just in time for Step 7.
7.	Get ready for another trip to another place next year.
Encourage those who accompanied you this year to sign up again and to tell their friends about it.
3