If you have had experience in arranging travel for groups in the past you probably will be able to decide off hand that either you can undertake the arrangements on your own, or that you need the help of a travel expert.
If you have not had such experience, here is a general principle that will be helpful: For a direct tour to one destination and back (to Bermuda, for example) the so-called “ground arrangements” can be set up for a group with little more difficulty than would be involved in making arrangements for yourself or for a couple. On the other hand, if you are not an experienced tour conductor and contemplate a trip over an extended itinerary with many stopovers, you will find the services of a travel agent practically indispensable. In consulting your travel agent you may find that he already has a “package tour” including hotel accommodations, ground transportation and sightseeing, that fits in with your plan.
The cost is not increased by availing yourself of the travel agent’s services—he receives his remuneration from the transportation, hotel and sightseeing companies.
Any Pan American World Airways Sales office will assist you and will furnish names and addresses of authorized travel agents in your vicinity if you request them.
After you have resolved this question, you are ready for Step Number 3.
Plan your itinerary.
The travel agent or Pan American World Airways Sales representative will help you with this. Either will have the time tables, fare schedules and all other reference material to help you decide how to go, and determine how much it will cost. They will advise you with respect to preparing a prospectus of the trip which will help to create the urge to travel—a detailed itinerary and a story of the trip. They will also furnish the information that you will have to have regarding tourist cards, passports, visas, customs, immigrations, public health and police requirements. Yes, police! Some countries ask that you bring certificates attesting to the good character of the people in your group.
You are now ready for Step 4.
4. Are you a good salesman?
If you have carried out Steps 1, 2 and 3 thoroughly you now are in a position to be a good salesman. You are ready now to go to those people whose names you jotted down while “surveying the situation” in Step 1. The trip you have planned for them should sell itself, because you have
2