Summer Schools Abroad Iru 1948
There are summer schools in the colleges and universities of many countries outside the U. S. which offer courses of interest to U. S. teachers and students, and which will welcome registration by Americans.
Information on these schools has been compiled by the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, and the listings for schools in Asia, Europe and Latin America are set forth below.
The Institute reports that tuition costs at foreign summer schools range from about $10 to $80. In most cases the universities abroad do not have dormitories, and students have to find rooms in boarding houses. Room and board varies from $15 to $35 a week. The Institute advises that students contemplating a summer of study abroad plan a budget of at least $750 for all the expenses—this would vary of course with respect to fare for passage in proportion to the length of the trip involved.
If a student desires to receive credit at his own university for study abroad, he should consult authorities at his alma mater prior to going abroad. Foreign institutions do not use the U. S. credit system, therefore it is necessary to make arrangements for getting credit in advance.
Travel itself is basis for credit at some universities. It also is acceptable for professional advancement of teachers in some school systems. If either of these two forms of credit is desired, the university or school system should be consulted in advance.
Dr. Frank Hubbard, Director of the Research Division of the National Education Association recently made a survey of universities and school systems to determine what credit was offered for travel, and found that at least thirty universities now offer credit, and that 23 school systems accept travel as partial fulfillment of professional growth requirements.
As to registration in foreign schools, the Institute says “Students should write directly to the Director of the Summer Session of the school of their choice for admission to the course, except in those cases where another address is indicated. International money coupons should be enclosed to ensure prompt reply.”
The Institute has booklets on Summer Schools in Britain, on the summer school of the University of San Marcos in Lima, and on the Peruvian Summer School at Lima which may be obtained by writing to the Institute.
The list of summer schools in Asia, Europe and Latin America, as compiled by the Institute of International Education follows: