Start by going through the entire time table, to become familiar with its various sections in a general way.
There are two sections in the time table itself which will guide you in this “familiarization tour” — the Table of Contents and the section on “How to Use the Time Table”. In the latter you will find brief desci’iptions like “Passenger Fares” with a reference to the number of the pages on which this information will be found. Turn to those pages for a quick look. Then go on to the next item in “How to Use the Time Table” and continue through the section — turning to the pages referred to wherever there is such a reference.
Five or ten minutes should be enough to get a general idea of what is included.
Remember that this is a quick introduction to the time table as a whole, so limit the time for it, as the various sections will be studied in more detail later. Use the section “Plan a Trip” on pages 3 and 4 to learn the simple principles governing the use of time tables then work out the other problems suggested under “Other Time Table Projects” on page 2. Now see page 3.
♦Trademark of Pan American Airways, Inc.
IJ l'j'h
SYSTEM TIME TABLES
HOW TO USE . . .
Get Acquainted with the Time Table
A Note on the International Date Line
PAGE
2
The international date line is an imaginary north and south line in the Pacific Ocean half way ai’ound the world from Greenwich, England, which is about 7 miles from central London — or in other words at 180°. Find it on a globe or a world map. Note that in general it follows the 180th Meridian, but with variations to cai*ry it around certain land masses. This line was established by international agreement. The special significance of the International Date Line to the traveler is that the day changes whenever you cross it. If you cross going westward, today immediately becomes tomorrow — Sunday becomes Monday, etc. If you were proceeding eastward the reverse would happen. Today would become yesterday, Sunday would be Saturday, etc.
This may seem arbitrary, but it is a logical and natural result of our system of dividing the world into 24 time zones starting at the zero or Greenwich Meridian. It may be illustrated in terms of an imaginary airplane capable of flying through a time zone in exactly one hour (it would have to fly at about 1,000 miles per hour to do so.)
Suppose we start off in such an airplane, departing at midnight from the 180th Meridian, or in other words from the International Date Line, and fly due west, setting our speed so that we will require exactly one hour to pass through each time zone.
The 180th Meridian bisects the 180° time zone. Half
of the zone lies to the west of the meridian. Consequently, after flying a half hour we reach the border of the adjacent zone to the west, which observes 165° time. Here we set back the clock from 12:30 to 11:30. In another half hour — when we reach 165°E it is again midnight.
As we pass through the next time zone we repeat the process — and upon reaching 150°E we find our clock again indicates midnight. Time is running out — but because we keep on setting back the clock it is the same as if the clock were standing still.
After 24 hours of this we are back at 180° and our clock has not moved ahead at all. It is still midnight. But obviously a day has passed, so we just have to mark off a day on the calendar. In other words, today becomes tomorrow.
Midnight travels around the world every day — just as it traveled with us in our imaginary plane journey — losing a whole day on the clock. This day has to be put back, and a line out in the Pacific, where there are fewer people to be inconvenienced or confused, was selected to add on that day (or subtract one — for eastbound travelers). This adjustment is necessary for the traveler crossing over the date line whether he is going around all of the world or whether he is going around only part of it, as is necessary for evei'ybody to be in step with the progression of time.
OTHER TIME TABLE PROJECTS
For use after working out the suggestion "Plan a Trip" on pages 3 and 4.
Select any two points on the Pan American World Airways System and work out your own itinerary. If you choose widely separated points in different parts of the system which will make it necessary for you to consult two or more different tables your problem will be more interesting.
Also there are many variations that add zest to the game of time table exploring.
Imagine that every member of your group is in Buenos Aires and you want to go to Calcutta. Let each work out an itinerary, then compare them and see who works out the fastest, most direct trip.
Imagine that there are two salesmen, one in New York City and one in San Francisco who leave on the same day to call on a prospective customer in Calcutta. Which one will get there first and, presumably, get the business ?
Clippers carry cargo and mail as well as passengers. Imagine that you are a coffee exporter in Rio de Janeiro, and you want to send samples of your offerings to New York, iNew Orleans and Los Angeles. How long will it take in each case?
Assume you have a vacation budget allowing you $100 for your air fare. Where can you go? (Look for the special excursion fares.) Imagine the amount is $500 ,and plan a longer trip. Do the same with $1000 and with $1700.
Which takes longer, to travel the circle route around Latin America — down the west coast, across and up the east (or vice versa) or around the world? Let each member of the group originate a problem which is a variation on one of the above, work it out, and explain to the others. Then cast ballots to vote for the most interesting problem.