HAWAII 1948
By Dudley Crafts Watson
Hawaii had been glowingly and affectionately thought of only as the “Paradise of the Pacific” by everyone concerned up to December 7, 1941. On that day a terrifying act of military force and monstrous destruction made it something else in the minds of the whole world!
Pearl Harbor on the island of Oahu at the capital city of Honolulu is one of the most perfect, completely land locked, deep water harbors in the world, a place of protection from storms and from enemy ships on the sea. But on that fateful morning—without warning or declaration of war—air planes of Japan zoomed out of the sky and bombed to annihilation a large portion of the fleet of Jhe Pacific of the United States at anchor in Pearl Harbor.
Since then, Pearl Harbor has been the symbol of the reasons for the entry and the participation of the United States in the vast conflict of World War II.
So Pearl Harbor alongside the beautiful city of Honolulu in the heart of the Hawaiian Islands, out there some 2,400 miles from the mainland of North America, takes its place in history along with Hastings, Waterloo, Bunker Hill, Gettysburg, and Verdun.
Through these little islands, for four years, passed the largest stream of naval armada in all history. The quiet little capital city became a vast military camp, and the soldiers and sailors of the United States outnumbered the population of the city and the islands many times.
There had to be vast storehouses for food and beds by the tens of thousands, for Hawaii became the distributing center for the most gigantic conflict ever waged, except for the conflict of Europe that was being waged simultaneously.
By Air to Hawaii
In this summer of 1947, it was hard to picture the islands during those four war years, for the destruction at Pearl Harbor has been completely erased—the enemy is conquered and the Pacific is at Peace. We find Hawaii just as it should be—a paradise, and available to the whole world as never before. Many readers of this article will go to Hawaii sometime—sooner, perhaps, than you think, and with the ease you now travel to the nearest city.
Up to fifteen years ago no one ever went to the Hawaiian Islands except by ship, a five day journey even by the fastest liner. Today one may leave the mainland on a Flying Clipper and be in Honolulu in ten hours.
The traditional welcome is extended to the traveler arriving by air. Music, leis, bands, singers, hula dancers and confetti are much in evidence. Don’t worry. To be sure not as many go to the airport to meet forty passengers as go to the wharves to meet four hundred, but there they are— lovely girls, music, great trays of luscious field ripened pineapple sticks.
Your hosts greet you with their cordial, “Alohas,” and they smother you with leis of plumaria, ginger, carnations, camelias,