PINEAPPLES. This is one of the largest pineapple plantations. In Hawaii, pineapple growing, packing and shipping is a leading industry. Some pineapples are shipped fresh, more in cans as sliced fruit, chunks of fruit or juice. The Air Age makes it possible to ship by air fresh pineapples that are nearly ripe, and as the field ripened pineapple is far superior in taste to the one picked green so that it will be ripe on arrival, a definite purpose is served by air shipment. The same applies to many other varieties of tropical fruits.
are sung and danced with reverence and deep passion. Hands describe so beautifully the sun and the stars, the mountains and the rains, the flowers and the little brown house that is home. Few of these dances are done singly, but in a sequence and by six or more dancers. Many of the women are still beautiful dancers at the age of fifty.
All air lanes in the Hawaiian Islands lead back to Honolulu. Around Pearl Harbor there is a magnificent Navy Base, the whole of which is on dress parade Saturday afternoons. An official reception on a great “Battle Wagon,” if one is in port, and at least a visit to a submarine or a destroyer with coffee served below is on the program. Not one scar remains, except the cemetery just above on a high hill in the clouds with its 1,500 white crosses marking the graves of the American boys of the Navy who were sacrificed on that fateful Sunday in December, 1941.
The wholesale district of Honolulu reminds one of Baltimore or Boston. The
retail district is lined with fine stores and beautiful shops. Then there are the can and pineapple factories where one may spend hours watching the magic of modern machine packing! Motoring about the islands or tramping across the Capitol, one is impressed with the school buildings, and here, conspicuously, one feels the hand of Uncle Sam.
Illiteracy Vanishing
Illiteracy is rapidly vanishing from the Islands and English is spoken by everyone with a broad New England accent. The finest Polynesian Museum in the world is the Bishop Museum. The University of Hawaii, now working on a big building program, has an annual enrollment of over 4,000.
The Municipal buildings, particularly the library and the new City Hall would be a credit to any modern metropolis. A masterpiece of tropical architecture is the Academy of Art with its adobe walls,