roses, hibiscus, orchids, and coconut flowers. The leis are garlands that go over the head and hand to the waist. Each garland is a different flower and you may be leied with twenty different ones. The fragrance is intoxicating, the soft cool petals caress your neck, and you are lucky if you can breathe or look over the top.
Each lei represents hours of work and delicate intricate craftsmanship, and all a gesture of greeting. Most of the flowers used for the leis do not fade or wilt rapidly, so with care many a lei can be worn a day or two. They add so much to your dream of being in Paradise.
You are whisked in the latest model luxury motor car past the extensive airports, warehouses, ocean docks, glimpsing on a hill the magnificent new government hospital that will soon serve civilians as well as military folk, into the splendid modern streets of metropolitan, cosmopolitan, Honolulu; then down avenues of palms and hibiscus and through lavish gardens to your sea-side hotel.
Perfect Peace
Immediately you are impressed with the animated life and the genial cordiality, all enjoyed and extended with a warmth that is almost unprecedented. It is perfect peace. The months of fear and the years of doubt after Pearl Harbor, with a most complete blackout in deference to the dreaded invasion, that never did come, bound the people of Hawaii into a closely knit fraternity that still exists and makes the lights glow with a gayety that quite dispells the shades of night.
Hawaii has forgotten and forgiven, and Honolulu is truly the cross-roads of the Pacific where men of all races meet and understand each other! Here differences of race and class and creed seem rapidly vanishing, and the oriental and the occidental —the brown, the yellow, the red, the black, and the white are meeting on a plane of cordial kindliness and mutual consideration. This real spirit of brotherly love is seconded only by Brazil.
In Hawaii it is what you can do and the doing of it well that counts-—not your color, or your heritage, or your wealth. The banding together of the many races of the Islands in the war struggle accounts for much of this, but I am told that it was
always somewhat so. With such a climate —eternal perfect summer, seldom hot— never cold, a generous and evenly distributed rainfall throughout the year, and abundant soil and a lavish verdure—why should it be otherwise? The rains are brief, mostly in the day-time, and are lovingly called, “liquid sunshine.” It’s a rare day in Hawaii that doesn’t have its rainbows—sometimes a dozen an hour.
Hawaiian Nights
The nights are invariably star-lit, and moonlight in the Islands is never to be forgotten. As always in the tropics, the twilight is brief, but the nights are shot with a silvery light, and far from black. The wind blows strong only in mid-after-noon ; the night zephyrs are soft and warm, laden with the fragrance of jasmin, night blooming cereus, and nicotiana. There is always music; the songs of the islands are ever romantic, exquisitely rhythmic, and have to do only with the joy and beauty of life on the Islands.
Hawaii became a territory of the United States in 1898 without struggle, price, or resentment as an economic measure largely in deference to the sugar trade; never has it been a liability, but always an asset to the United States. The Hawaiians wanted it so, for it meant security. The natives are not Orientals, they are Polynesians. Hawaii was a monarchy when Captain Cook first landed there in 1779; it remained an independent monarchy with an elected ruler until the last queen Liliuo-kalani resigned her throne in 1893. Since the annexation, a governor of the territory has been appointed by the President of the United States, but all district and civic officers are elected by the people.
Now that efforts are being made to make Hawaii the 49th State,* it was interesting to have first hand the reaction of the Hawaiians to this. One might expect to find ardent enthusiasm or bitter opposition to such a step; not so at all. There is apparently no particular desire on the part of the people for a change, insofar as I could find, because the present status is so satisfactory. However, there seems to be no opposition, providing such a step will not affect the tax budget or plunge Hawaii into politics.
* Alaska, too, hopes to be the 49th state. —Ed.
4