tween Hawaii and Asia, the nearest one of importance however is eight hundred miles away.
Island of Oahu
Honolulu is on Oahu, the farthest west but one; the motor road around the island is a hundred miles and affords exquisite and varied scenery, much of the way through towering hedges of numberless varieties of hibiscus, the national flower of Hawaii. Sugar factories, turquoise bays, fisher villages, wooded mountain slopes, romantic coconut islands, and an impressive Mormon temple mark the way.
Transportation to the other islands has been adequately supplied by the sturdy, comfortable little steamers of the Inter-Island Transportation company. Now these ships have all but been abandoned for passenger service which now is routed over the Hawaiian Air Lines with a network of air lanes throughout the islands. It takes all night to go to the western island of Kauai by boat—only forty-five minutes by plane; and oh, flying about the islands is so beautiful!
Kauai is the garden island with two beautiful rivers, the only ones on these volcanic islands. The center of Kauai is said to be the wettest spot on earth with 433 inches of rainfall annually. There are flowering trees beyond one’s imagination, wide plantations of pineapple and sugar cane, and rice fields that have to be protected from the birds five months a year by an amusing and intricate system of fluttering flags and bells on wire spider webs jerked by hand from a central platform. Kauai has spectacular caves and a veritable grand canyon known as Olokele. Some beautiful estates are being developed on this island, especially by Chicagoans.
Molokai, the first to the southeast of Oahu is called the “Friendly Island.” Part of it is a desert but it has some large pineapple plantations, and the dramatically situated Leper Colony. It is also the chief hunting ground for deer and one of the main fisheries.
Then comes Maui with its gigantically cratered extinct volcano, Haleakala, up the nine thousand, three hundred feet of which the traveler goes to watch the sun rise; its name means, House of the Sun! There is
a sea side drive of sixty miles through the most luxurious tropical forest of the islands: tree ferns thirty feet tall, the royal poinciana, the blue, the koa, monkey pod, camphor, and waterfalls—waterfalls galore. The terminal of this breathtaking drive is Hana where one expects to be lodged in a ranch house, only to find it the most modern, complete, and charming country hotel in the world, with the possible exception of the Avalon Hotel above Caracas, Venezuela.
Island of Hawaii
The largest and most spectacular of the islands is Hawaii, generally referred to as the Big Island, with its lovely city of Hilo (recently tragically hit by a tidal wave). Here one finds the whole range of Hawaiian life and scenery. The center is occupied by four lofty volcanos: Hualalai, Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa, and Kilauea.
Mauna Kea reaches 13,825 feet, and on its snowy slopes, skiing and other winter sports are enjoyed. Kilauea is still active with major eruptions about every seven years. From the bases of these volcanos since 1823, majestic but terrifying rivers of lava have flown in various directions clear to the sea. There are ten of them, the most recent from Mauna Loa in 1926.
A spacious hotel at the edge of the semi-active crater of Kilauea known as Volcano House is the only hotel in the Islands at temperate altitude. Here it sometime snows and is always cool. Burning fragrant pine knots snap and sparkle in huge fireplaces and sulphur steam jets rise for miles around out of the fumiori crevices.
On Hawaii is also the Kailua District with its famous Kona Coast where Cook landed in 1799, and where the Christian missionaries first came in 1820 and built the first Christian Church. Here one recalls more Polynesian history than any other spot, and the last of the royal palaces is near the delightful Kona Inn, the favorite rendezvous of Honoluluans who wish to swim and fish and ride, and live luxuriously away from the big city.
Around the Kona Inn at twilight time are placed a circle of minahui torches to light the strange little people who perform miraculous jobs of building to help the good people; anything they begin, whether
6