99
... via, PAN AMERICAN . . .
THE pioneering of this airline over the West Indies contributed one of the brightest chapters in all the exciting history of American aviation. The first aerial passage of a commercial aircraft over this island chain between the two great American continents was accomplished by Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh, during January and February of 1928. In his little Spirit of St. Louis, in which he converted the world to aviation with his epochal flight across the Atlantic to Paris only a few months before, he negotiated the difficult land-and-sea crossing as the final arc in his “Good Will Flight” to the countries and colonies encircling the Caribbean Sea. In that year the first international air service from the United States reached only as far as Havana, 97 miles across the Florida Straits, the first airway which Pan American Airways had established on October 28, 1927.
Even before Lindbergh’s historic flight, however, aerial pioneers were already making their way slowly southward building, almost mile by mile, a basic airway through these geographically difficult islands, the arcs in a great aerial bridge that was one day to reach far off South America. The heroic task they accomplished in the face of incredible difficulties is already legend among the natives of the little Caribbees who, before the Spirit of St. Louis flashed through the tropic skies above them, had scarcely dreamed that such a working miracle as an airplane existed.
By the end of that year the operating terminal had been moved northward to Miami and, on January 9, 1929 the first international air transport service—the first major section of the Pan American Airways System—was formally inaugurated between Miami and Puerto Rico, by way of Havana, Santiago de Cuba, Port au Prince, Haiti and Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. The largest of the world’s airliners of that day— the “great” tri-motored Fokkers, carrying ten passengers and crew—revolutionized the concept of travel and transport time with their two-day schedules between the United States and Puerto Rico, at best a five day voyage by the fastest steamers.
Instead of being days apart, these countries were now brought within a few hours of each other. Practical miracles were being accomplished with every mile. Before the airplane, for instance, there was no acceptable way of traveling between Santiago de Cuba and Port au Prince, Haiti, some 265 miles apart. It was actually necessary to go by train the 700 miles to Flavana, thence another hundred miles by plane or steamer to Key West, and northward to New York by train. There, the
gassenger boarded a steamer for Santo Domingo, via Puerto Jco, and a rough twelve hour trip by motor car would finally take him to the Haitian capital—a classic voyage of 4,000 miles—and ten days—to travel between two cities just 265 miles apart!
But at San Juan the airline was halted. On the little Caribbees to the south there was no level ground upon which airports could be built. Aircraft capable of operating on and off the sea were required. Designers had long before been put to work on this problem and airway builders pressed south by steamer and canoe to build the first marine air bases. During that year the first of the now famous Sikorsky amphibians was ready and, in October, 1929, Colonel Lindbergh himself piloted the first Pan American airliner over this island chain with the first United States air mail to the Guianas and the eastern coast of South America. Once that link was established, the airway was gradually pressed on southward until it paralleled the Great Eastern Trade Route all the way to far off Rio de Janeiro, Asuncion, Montevideo and Buenos Aires—the most distant capital on the South American continent.
It was over this airway that the first of the Flying Clipper Ships were operated and the first of the trans-oceanic Clippers which, later, blazed the first aerial trails across the Pacific to
China and New Zealand and across the North Atlantic to Europe. Today this eastern arc of the “Lindbergh Circle” is one of the busiest arteries of aerial commerce in the world. And from it has expanded the great Pan American trunk airlines which, with their complementary routes in the west, link to the United States every country and colony of the Three Americas and join these with the lands beyond the oceans.
Far from the concepts of what an airway was considered to be even a few years ago, this aerial highway between the American continents is one of the technical standards for world aviation. To many people an airline is considered to be some imaginary line through the sky. Actually, it is a carefully charted, constantly patroled and scientifically equipped transport aerial right-of-way. This airway, on the surface, is a minutely detailed course on which terminal and intermediate airports are located every hundred miles or so, with periodic stations equipped for full mechanical servicing of the airliners. Over this course, and at these airports, are stationed a corps of specially trained engineers and mechanics, radio operators and weather experts whose sole responsibility is the smooth, high-precision operation of your airliner. Although this airway—and its organization—is considered the finest example of precision transport operation, a scientific guard which no other form of transportation can boast, the section of the airway above the surface is usually of more interest to the layman.
To understand this airway over which you are flying, try to visualize a tunnel through the air, measuring a hundred miles or more wide, and 30,000 feet high. Through this lies your airway course. This three-dimensional section of the sky is under con-stant guard by a network of radio stations, locatedat intervalsof every few hundred miles, which are linked to a series of weather observatory posts and, in turn, to the aircraft in flight. From these observation posts on the surface, nitrogen-filled balloons are dispatched into the upper air—to 20,000, 30,000, sometimes 50,000 feet—and, from their starting level a few feet off the ground into the upper air levels 10,000 and 20,000 feet higher than your airliner will travel, they enable the expert weathermen to chart the height, direction and velocity of the winds. To these are added expert observations of clouds and their altitude, temperature readings, the proportion of moisture in the air, the barometric pressure—all basic data similarly assembled from every station. From these scientific facts is drawn the three-dimensional weather map upon which your airliner’s course is plotted before it ever leaves the ground.
While your airliner speeds aloft under the constant guard of these “watch stations” any change is relayed by radio to the Captain on the fly so that his map is up-to-the-minute for his entire course. In addition to the weather and radio stations, the latest miracle of radio—’powerful, long-range directionfinding stations—keep dials tuned to the airliner’s radio, so that the operations staff on the ground can check, at any minute, on the airliner and, by means of bearings, can provide the Captain with a check on his own navigation. In effect, and in operation, this radio guard is similar to the long-famous “block signal” system of automatic train control used on the finest railways. Except that, in addition to checking the aircraft along its course, this unique Pan American radio system also keeps the Captain fully advised, at all times, of all conditions ahead of and behind him.
It is this high-precision, carefully disciplined system of men and methods which has won for Pan American its enviable reputation of being not only the largest of air transport systems, but the “standard of the world for air transportation.” Via Pan American, you travel with the supreme assurance that your capable crew—and the 5,000 trained experts along the airways—are in constant attendance on the swift, sure flight of your airliner. . . .
. . . In this World above the Earth . . .
ALTHOUGH flying is the most natural way to move about the earth—a goal toward which man has struggled through thirty centuries—the miracle of modern flight is still so new that the elements of this new means of effortless, swift movement are little known to most of those who now travel, as a matter of course, along the fast spreading highways of the sky.
The reason is natural enough. We have been earthbound through so many ages that our lives have been little concerned with this “world above the earth” which has, within this past generation alone, come to be a universally accepted means of modern travel. But this unobstructed “sky” through which we move so naturally is full of interest. . . .
THE AIR—As long as we were earthbound it was easy to accept the popular fancy that the atmosphere which surrounds our earth, and which we call the air, was simply a “mass of nothingness.” Now we appreciate that it is a body of elements, just as the sea is a body of elements. Like soil or water, it has definite form and weight and substance. Clear air, true, is invisible. But clear water is also transparent. And the air is actually a definite supporting force—one which supports the airplane on all sides—whereas the earth or the sea supports surface vehicles only on one side. Not only does the air support the airplane, but it also helps to lift it. The shape of the plane’s wing—and the force of the air driven over that wing by the engines’ propellers—combine with the air to counteract the law of gravity—just as we counteract it a thousand times a day when we raise our hand, lift a piece of paper or raise our feet to walk. There is no more mystery to flying than there is to any of these perfectly natural movements.
THE WIND—The air through which you travel has contours, just like any other surface over which you move. But in this case the air moves from one temperature level to another. Warm air has a tendency to expand, and ascend. Cold air contracts and descends. And the movement of the air from one temperature gradient to another creates what we call Wind. The direction of the wind depends upon the location of these temperature points; the velocity of the wind depends upon their difference. Wind is important to the flyer because it can either slow his progress or speed it—according to whether or not it is traveling in the same direction that he is. But the winds are no more important to flying than that. The speed of the airplane itself is so much greater than the normal speed of the wind that the airplane maintains an easy mastery.
Often these “temperature levels” are perfectly smooth for hundreds of miles in all directions. At other times, depending upon the variation of temperatures, they are uneven. And when they are uneven the airplane moves down or up accordingly—just as an automobile “bumps" over an uneven road surface. And this movement of the airplane is what air men call “bumps.” They are no more than that. During the early days of flying the uninitiated used to refer to them as “air pockets” —the fanciful “holes in the sky”—phenomena which, of course, do not exist.
THE WEATHER—As temperature is the cue to the winds and their character, so is it also a principal determinant of “weather.” Air almost always contains moisture in the form of invisible water vapor. When warm moisture-laden air comes in contact with cooler, dry air this vapor condenses into visible mist which we call clouds. Clouds nearest the earth are more dense, because the temperatures near the surface are warmer. And it is from these clouds that our “weather” comes—-when so much vapor is condensed that the clouds can no longer hold it in suspension and it is precipitated in the form of rain or snow, according to the prevailing temperature of the area. Each level has its own characteristic clouds. They are interest-
ing guide posts both to winds and to weather and convey important “forecasts" to the airman. The Steward will gladly show you a Cloud Chart to enable you to identify these interesting “skyscapes."
SPEED—And just as flying brings you in contact with new elements, so does it require certain adjustments. For instance, it is almost impossible to experience speed, once your airliner is off the surface. The reason for this is, that whereas in surface travel you are immediately in contact with various obstructions to your vision—which provide a means of measuring your movement—in the air these obstructions are so far removed that the element of motion is almost entirely dissipated. Only when flying through clouds which, incidentally, are themselves traveling with the air about you, can you appreciate any sense of speed.
ALTITUDE—Different altitude levels have different advantages for flying. Normally, the higher altitudes are more constant in temperature range and hence offer smoother air. Since temperature decreases one degree for every 300 feet of altitude, the upper air channels are also cooler and more comfortable to travel in. And since most of the “weather” experienced on the earth comes from the lower altitude clouds, the upper altitude channels provide clearer lanes for aerial traffic. Man can ascend to altitude levels between 9,000 and 12,000 feet with comfort. Beyond that, unless acclimated to more rarefied air, he may begin to feel effects of lessening oxygen. Hence, for passenger comfort, captains seldom fly above the 12,000 foot level.
Normally you have no sense of altitude. There is no “dizzy feeling” experienced from looking down from your airliner as many people experience, for instance, in looking at the ground from a tall building. The reason for this is that there are no downward lines which attract the vision to the surface, an attraction which creates the sense of dizziness. The only notable effect is the change of pressure. As you rise in altitude the pressure of the atmosphere, naturally, grows lighter. But, ascending, the change is so gradual that one can seldom notice it. When you are descending, however, the pressure of the atmosphere is, naturally, increasing. As this pressure-change accumulates it may affect the ear drums. It is entirely harmless, but may be momentarily uncomfortable. All you need to do to equalize the pressure is to swallow—or yawn.
NEW HORIZONS—One of the most interesting adjustments to be made is to that of vision—which air travel multiplies magically. All of your life on the surface, you have been able to see only a distance of 2 miles over a perfectly level stretch of earth. By the time your airliner is off the surface this horizon of yours has increased nearly five times—to 11miles! In the first sixty seconds of your flight it has broadened to 36 miles. And at a cruising altitude of 10,000 feet the horizon ahead, on a normally clear day, is 144 miles away. With one complete turn of the head you can survey 1,000 square miles! And if ahead of you there are mountains that reach as high as your altitude—10,000 feet—you will be able to see peaks of these mountains while they are still nearly 300 miles away. Because of our limited earthbound vision, distances aloft are often deceiving and it takes practice to be able to judge them with any degree of accuracy. Should you care to determine your “horizon” for yourself at any time here is a simple method:
VISION-RANGE FORMULA—Take the square root of your altitude and multiply this by 1.44 miles. The result is your range of vision. To make your computations easier, the Steward will be glad to secure from the Captain at any time the altitude at which you are flying—and its square root!