
Vache
'èremi e
Aquin
Grande Gayemites
fbijes
¡Hon
IM
pa]
Cap àFoux
M
Côtes de Fer Petite.
Bainet V ant"
J 3 cm<?l
port au "5
Veti
r Ma Sa/trou
Grand Gosier
—--------***"
■
W/mÊm.
1:
Beata Is
E,
Ne]t>3^ AzuJ Bay of Ocoa Pt Salinas Ban
¿Cap Haïtien
1 -* ■
--i
onte Cristi’
\y*Zkj ¡7 ¿3 c
Pt. Palenque‘*^m%Mi
Ciudad Trujillo
/
San Pedro de Macoris
■
3yor
J
1. ff
Catalina Is. \
La Romana
Saona Is.|	%
■


TR
V » ,
Désecheo Is.
-áad¿J
Mayagu
Cuánica
m

er
0 *
.quadilia
Nares Deep
£
msmmmâÊSiMÈm
Arecibo
. _	;:;:W
Ponce *	'^Manatí
;>	Vega Baja
Coama :. Bayamon
aTtu% C'li^PiedffC
Yabücoa El Yunque-
Humacao y JVaY-7 Foresf'
raja i ut/
Esperanza %yieques
* V Cuhsbra
m
wm
VIRGIN _BrassIs.
rs.	,
Freden Usted f?	f/John
ST. CROIX	'Tortola^
Christiansted \ í .	%
Virgin- Miagada
Gorda s" "
aï^gA
Sombrero -


Sj£a	^quilla
%	m.JVíartin
^	"" S\t.MstatiuS t ‘stBar^Umr
^ ^
ST. KITTS (ST CHBISTOPitR)
^	Basseterre T
1 Charlestown sU <	NEVIS

■ *
Codrington
BARBTÄA
MONTSERRAT	o + Tnhn,
Plymouth*’ ^ ot.JOnns ANTICUA
\/
«*
URDELO
M Pointe à-P^Hfr
Ûï
^ Iles des Sais
^ V
. V -i-HT
I Pet it Terre "Marie Salante

Portsmouth
Roseau
ICA
^ 11 ;
JVtf. Pelèey * "
St. Pierre ^ . Triniie
Fort de France,,
LA MARTINIQUE ,
Q

J5 Castr” ;
^ Soufrière F
St Lucia Channel T. LUCIA
r4:
V Georgetown .j|¡^ ST, VINCENT
Requia
Mustique	<$*
CarrYacou* Carinouan<^f' ' BARBADOS G Pridgetouun'%,^
£
f Spain
Tobago Is. borough

HISPANIOLA—Discovered by Columbus who named island after Spain. Originally inhabited by two million Carib Indians who early disappeared under rigorous Spanish rule. First white settlement in the new world at Molé St. Nicholas, made with wreckage from Columbus’s beached flag ship “Santa Maria." Colonists were destroyed by Indians. On second voyage Columbus founded Santo Domingo City, island now divided into Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
HAITI—Second oldest Republic in New World, occupies northern third of island First African slaves imported in 1512 by Spanish. French later conquered island. After 200years slaves rebelled, destroyed army sent by Napoleon I and established present Republic. Many landmarks of Haiti's four centuries of colorful history still stand. Near Cape Haitien is massive citadel-fortress on mountain top, built by Henri Christophe, the slave who rose to be a king, and ruins of his fabulous palace. Sans Souci. At Gonaives—Haitian hero Jean Jacques Dessalines tore the white stripe from the French tri-color as a signal for the massacre of all whites, prelude to Haiti’s rebellion. On Island of La Gonave the U. S. Marine Sergeant Faustin Wurkus was made “The White King" by natives. Population 3,000,000 blacks, with rich heritage of old French colonial culture. National language French. Almost entirely agricultural, Haiti raises coffee, cotton, tobacco, sugar, hemp, logwood, cashew nuts, tropical fruits, bananas.
PORT AU PRINCE—Haiti's capital (population 115,000) {Miami 707 miles. Ciudad Trujillo 280 miles. San Juan 414 miles. Trinidad 1044 miles.J Twin spires of ancient French cathedral and glistening white of domed governmental palace are famous landmarks. Gity famed for most fascinating market place in West Indies and for pre-revolutionary landmarks. Connecting airport for Pan American’s West Indies' local service—San Juan to Jamaica via Santiago—-also eastern Transcarib-bean North-to-South-America Clipper route (Miami to Maracaibo). Border between two republics lies through lakes and Massacre River.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC—First land settled by white men in New World, entire Island of Hispaniola was originally Spanish colony of Santo Domingo, named after patron saint of Columbus’s father. Discoverer's favorite land, where Columbus requested he be buried. Was cornerstone of great Spanish colonial empire in West, from which expeditions of conquest and exploration were extended across the Caribbean Sea, to both American continents. Spain lost it to French, the French to Haiti, Haiti to the Spanish, Spanish to the Republic, Republic to Haiti, returned to Spain. Since 1869, Republic has continued. (Population 1,200,000.) National language Spanish. Rich cattle and lumber country in north; sugar and tropical products in south. Principal products sugar, cocoa, cotton, coffee, lumber. CIUDAD TRUJILLO—the ancient city of Santo Domingo. (Population 75,000)— is called “Cradle of American History," oldest existing white settlement in the Americas. City founded by Columbus, 1494. Is most perfect example of Spanish colonial town of sixteenth century, still surrounded by ancient walls and bastions. In first cathedral built in America (1542), Columbus’s remains lie in state. Many buildings of Columbus's time still in use, filled with priceless art and historic treasures of early days of discovery and conquest. On banks of Ozama River is great Ceiba tree to which Columbus tied his flag-ship. Nearby, still stand walls of Columbus’s famous old home. Great public improvements have modernized city in recent years but have preserved its unique charm, most of its colonial buildings. SAN PEDRO DE MACORIS—Airport of entry for Dominican Republic. {Port au Prince, 205 miles. Miami 951 miles. San Juan 209 miles. Trinidad 839 miles.] Connected to Ciudad Trujillo by 20 mile paved highway, one of great publieworks which have modernized this progressive Republic. Near San Pedro is La Romana, second largest sugar mill in the world, in heart of great sugar producing area bounded by still thick primeval forests near coast.
SOANA ISLAND—Lying just off southwest point, is covered with deep jungle, is a paradise for hunters and sport fishermen.
MONA PASSAGE—Marine channel between Puerto Rico and Hispaniola, is 80 miles wide, half mile deep. On midway Mona Island buried gold and treasures of wrecked Spanish galleons have been found. To north 100 miles is Nares Deep, deepest known spot in the Atlantic ocean, which extends 25,000 feet (4,662 fathoms). PUERTO RICO—Island originally named San Juan by Columbus in 1493, who named the colony, at site of present city, Puerto Rico. He landed near present city of Aquadillo, 1493. (Population 1,500,000 has nearly doubled since becoming American possession.) Settled by Ponce de Leon, Was one of the last Spanish possessions in the New World, ceded to the United States after Spanish-American War. Desecheo Island, off northern coast, is inhabited by wild goats and seabirds. One of the most thickly populated countries on the globe. Only land under Stars and Stripes where Columbus ever set foot, island has preserved many works of Ponce de Leon’s time. One of United States’ leading world customers, island is rich in all kinds of tropical products—-sugar, coffee, fine tobacco, oranges, lemons, bananas coconuts, rum. Its handmade lace and embroidery are world famous.
SAN JUAN—-The most famous Spanish fortress, El Morro, begun by Ponce de Leon, 1538, finished 40 years later, was so great a task that Spanish king, receiving report of completion, called for his telescope that he might see this massive battlement that cost so much to build. Ponce de Leon's tomb is in the cathedral he built. American Governor’s house is in one of ancient fortresses. City is noted for striking combination of ancient Spanish colonial and modern American tones; for narrow cobbled streets and broad modern boulevards. Terminal of splendid highways which traverse forests, mountains and picturesque valleys. Recently has become one of preferred travel resort centers of Caribbean. {San Pedro, 209 miles. Port au Prince, 414 miles. Miami, 1160 miles. Trinidad, 751 miles. (631).]
From San Juan the express Clipper route cuts directly south non-stop (631 miles) to Port of Spain. The local route follows the islands (751 miles) to Trinidad.
VIRGIN ISLANDS—Named by Columbus for Saint Ursula and her virgins. Bought from Denmark by the U. S. in 1917 for $25,000,000. Nearest to Europe of all the West Indies, these islands were bloody pirate headquarters four centuries ago, and owned in turn by Spanish, Dutch, English and Danes. Charlotte Amalie, capital, once greatest slave market in the world, famous for its bay rum, is now scene of the U. S. Government rum project. Bluebeard's Castle is now a fine modern 1 iv^lU. Bldt-kbccud’s Caslic is die residence of island officials, virgin Islands have
32.000	population. Largest island, St. Croix, lies 40 miles southwest.
LEEWARD ISLANDS—First of the true Caribbees, this title includes all British islands from Virgins south to French Martinique, dotting “the historic waters." First charted by Columbus, fought over by Spanish, French, British, Dutch, then pirates and buccaneers. Through them came conquests of the vast American continents and formation of great colonial empires of the sixteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth centuries. Called “cockpits of Empire” the Caribbees are considered most scenically beautiful of all islands.
SABA—-A volcanic cone rising from the sea. Eight hundred steps lead up from beach to town, strangely called "the Bottom", set at crater's base. An isolated community of thrifty Dutch, who construct sea-worthy sloops inside the crater, and lower them over the rocks to the sea. Contains the only pure sulphur mine in the world. To eastward are first of British Leeward Islands. Westward is St. Eusta-tious (French).
ST. KITTS—First British colony in America. Settled 1635. Was base for colonization by Britain in the New World. Scars of bloody strife between British, French and Caribs still remain. Visited by Capt. John Smith.
NEVIS—Originally neive, so called by Columbus who mistook its mountain peaks’ almost perpetual mantle of clouds for snow. Once great exporter of sugar, rum. Its thermal curative baths are noted health resort. Birthplace of Alexander Hamilton. Nearby Barbuda—Once used for commercial production of slaves by British. ANTIGUA—Named by Columbus, 1493, after a church in Seville. British since 1632. English Harbor east of Falmouth Bay on south coast, was headquarters for British navy during old French wars. Lord Nelson’s home, arsenals and shipyards where he fitted his fleet for Trafalgar still stand since 1788. Near western coast are pillars of Hercules. Stone towers are bases of old windmills once used to grind sugar cane. Excellent deep sea fishing. Here oysters grow on mangrove trees.
ST. JOHNS-—Capital of Leeward Islands. Chief commercial city of Antigua. (Population 10,000.) Twin spires of old Anglican cathedral are landmarks. {St. Thomas, 320 miles. San Juan, 400 miles. Miami, 1570 miles. Guadaloupe, 60 miles. Martinique 120 miles. Port of Spain, 400 miles.]
GUADELOUPE—Discovered by Columbus, 1493. Colonized by French 1635. Island divided into Basseterre and Grande Terre by Salee River. One of most important commercial points in Lesser Antilles. (Population with adjoining French Islands, 250,000.) During the French Revolution scores of Royalists were guillotined in the square at Pointe à Pitre, principal port (population 30,000). Westward are Capesterre, back of it the volcano Soufrière, and nearby the village of Trois Rivières, with its famous beach, and the marvelous warm springs of Dole-les-Bains. Stone towers are ancient windmills. Little Basseterre (population 10,000) is capital. DOMINICA—-Named "Sunday” because Columbus discovered it on that day, 1493. Famous peak Diabolatin, nearly a mile high, and Titon Peaks visible only average of two days each month. Large sulphur deposits at Soufrier. Famous boiling springs in Roseau valley. Island was last Carib Indian reservation. MARTINIQUE—Discovered by Columbus, taken over by French soon after; population today nearly H million. Birthplace of Empress Josephine. A thriving native industry is deep-sea fishing. Other products are sugar, rum, cacao, coffee, bananas. Beneath clearly visible lava scar lies the dead city of St. Pierre, whose
30.000	people—-every soul except one man, a prisoner in a dungeon—-were buried in a few seconds by peak's eruption, 1902. Twenty ships in harbor were set afire by molten river, which reached far out to sea. Fort de France is the capital (population 48,000). Here at Fort St. Louis, 150 Frenchmen successfully fought off 6,000 Dutch who landed in the harbor. In the interior are three widely famed springs. Didier, Moutte, and Absalon.
ST. LUCIA—-Discovered 1502. Conquered by French in 1635. First British settlement 1639. For 175 years bitterly fought over between French, Carib, and British. Finally under British rule since 1803. Colonial traces of France still visible and French is native language for most of population. Most northerly and largest of the Windward Islands. (Population 51,000.) Capital is Port Castries. (Population 8,000.) Soufrier, sixty miles south of Castries is active volcano. Island noted for curative mineral springs and is popular resort.
ST. VINCENT—Scene of almost perpetual warfare through its first 150 years. British finally wrested absolute control about 1800 after exiling 5,000 warlike Caribs to island off Honduras, 1797. Capital is Kingston. (Population 54,000.) GRENADINES—Chain of about 100 islands and keys, stretching 60 miles between St. Vincent and Grenada. Discovered by Columbus, 1498. Settled by the French, 1650. Became British possession in 1700.
GRENADA—Largest of Grenadines. St. George is capital of the British Windward Islands. Captured from the French in 1753, and held stoutly through several fierce struggles. Crops are cacao and nutmeg. The gray-green nutmeg trees do not bear for 15 years, but one good tree will produce up to 5,000 nutmegs a year. Barbados, to east, is one of most important of Britain’s Caribbean possessions.
GALLEON PASSAGE—Deep-water channel south of Grenada was course of early gold-laden galleons bound from Panama to Spain. Tobago, to east, named by Columbus, 1494.
TRINIDAD—Named by Columbus in 1498, for the three mountain peaks (Trinity) he saw from far out at sea. Held alternately by Spanish and English, under Walter Raleigh, till taken by England in 1797. Biggest oil-producing colony of the Empire, it provides asphalt for the world's highways from its famed Pitch Lake, 60 miles south of Port of Spain by motor car. (Population 400,000.)
PORT OF SPAIN—Population (71,000.) Bustling “city of all races" noted for shops stocked from all comers of the world. Resort centers with picturesque bathing coves and rich tropical countryside easily accessible. Aerial crossroads for Pan American routes SOUTH: Belem, 1341 miles; Rio de Janeiro, 4657 miles; Buenos Aires, 6102 miles; West: Caracas (La Guaira), 387 miles; Barranquilla, 980 miles; Cristobal, C. Z., 1356 miles; North: San Juan, 760 miles; Miami, 1790 miles.