Songs of old Hawaii fill the night as the luau guests are served.
To the new arrival, this sensation of color and perfume is probably the most powerful, and often the most lasting impression. The faces of the people, too, are different. Hawaii has been called the world’s most perfect melting pot. The intermingling of racial strains is everywhere evident, producing a vigorous and enterprising strain of Americans.
Hawaii has emerged from the ordeal of war—in which she bore the first blow at Pearl Harbor—with renewed energy and confidence in her destiny. Industrially and commercially she is becoming increasingly important. Honolulu, her capital and No. 1 city, is an active, alive American community of over 300,000; a vital seaport linking the sea and air routes of three continents.
The thrill of surfboarding—with an expert to help you stay on.
On an outlying beach an Hawaiian fisherman proves his skill with the throw net.
Heading out for the rolling breakers off W in an outrigger "war canoe.”
Yet this 20th Century hustle and bustle is super-imposed on a land whose scenic splendor and dreamlike fascination are ageless. Hawaii, and that means all the islands, will always enchant the visitor, particularly if he seeks the out-of-the-way places, where the picturesque life of the natives is still lived in all its primitive Polynesian charm.
Air transportation has made close neighbors out of all the islands of the Hawaiian group. As the plane flies, it’s only 50 minutes from Honolulu to lovely Maui with its bamboo groves, the scenic drive to Hana, and Haleakala, awesome House of the Sun. It is also just a short hop to Hawaii, “The Big Island,” home of such eye-filling spectacles as Kilauea Volcano with its great bubbling fire pit; the black beach of Kalapana; the Kona Coast, headquarters for
big game fishing; Mauna Loa and Mai towering over 13,000 feet above st Kauai, called the Garden Isle and rich ripe beauty of the South Seas, is less hour’s flight from Honolulu.
3sr
.
' * J
> J*!*!