Wo-u/i Safety inbfiutcfäonü
Remember how you followed your teacher, orderly and quietly, out of your classroom during school fire drills? The same applies here. Obey instructions. Your Clipper crew has practiced many times what to do. Your part is to co-operate quickly and completely.
The hundreds of pounds of the latest safety equipment aboard your Clipper was tested before you boarded the plane. Instead of one life-raft, there are five, each stowed away in a strategic location. Each is outfitted with adequate food and water. Even fishing tackle. And there is a radio sending set which can send an SOS, constantly, 2,000 miles in any direction.
Sdetâ maJce ée/ìewe
Let’s get on with our imaginary water landing. First, students, get yourselves as comfortable as possible. Remove things which obviously could hurt you—such as pencils, pens, sharp jewelry. Johnny, loosen your collar. Mary, wriggle out of those high-heeled shoes—they’re rough on rafts.
The Civil Aeronautics Authority asks that every over-water air passenger read this instructive and interesting booklet.
/anf/iiiÿù
A water landing is improbable while you are flying in a Clipper, which can remain aloft on any two of its four engines.
Just the same, Pan American’s Clippers are designed to withstand such landings. Airtight wing tanks and cabin will keep the aircraft afloat long after you get into life rafts. Ditched planes have remained afloat for over a day and a half.
If trouble should arise, your Clipper captain will first radio for help. Next, he will inform you— even though the situation is far from serious. We believe in keeping every passenger completely informed at all times.
After putting on your vest, fasten your seat belt tightly, and await further instructions. It may be some time before the landing is made—and it’s more probable that none will be made. However, you will be kept advised.
In the back of the seat in front of you, or in the side pocket, is one of the latest light-weight life jackets. Nylon, too. Slip it on like a vest. Adjust all straps so they are snug, but not tight. Tie the two top strings. Cross the bottom at the front and tie around your waist.
The vest is simple to inflate. But wait, don’t do it in the airplane . . . it’s much simpler to move around the plane with your jacket deflated.
A short time before landing, your Clipper Captain will give the order: Brace for ditching. (Careful, the order is not embrace!) Press your feet against the floor and clasp your hands behind your neck. That, combined with the cushioned seat, will relieve the strain of any sharp stop.