Even if you are only stopping over for a day on your way to the Orient or the United States, Honolulu and its Island of Oahu offer a rewarding array of places to see. The 90-mile tour of the island embraces such attractions as the famed beach at Waikiki; the dramatic heights of the Pali, last defensive stronghold of Hawaiian Kings; the Coral Gardens; native Hawaiian villages, pineapple plantations and verdant Manoa, Valley of the Rainbows.
The list of things to do and see in Hawaii is manifold. Your own Travel Agent or nearest Pan American office will help you with your sightseeing arrangements, geared to your time schedule. And remember when you fly, there’s always more time to see more of everything!
Ask how clubs, societies, etc., may borroiu, for showing, free of charge, 16mm color-sound movies of the places mentioned in this folder—and others.
Hawaii’s beauty is not limited to its golden climate and scenic wonders.
The island’s irregular coastline affords pan^ oramas of mountains and surf washed beaches,
ONLY THE CLIPPERS FLY
You'll enjoy friendly service and comfort all the way when you fly Pan American.
Delicious meals, prepared by expert chefs, are served to you free of charge.
Whether you’re flying to Hawaii in one of Pan American’s new, giant Boeing-type Clippers— or enjoying the comforts of Sleeperette Service* on a through-Clipper going all the way, east or west across the Pacific, you’ll have the added pleasure of traveling through some of the world’s finest flying weather.
All of Pan American’s Pacific routes extend through this halcyon “sunshine belt’’, far from the stormy latitudes. By day, a friendly sun streaming through the windows fills your Clipper cabin with its brightness. At night, the stars shine clearly overhead.
By Clipper, the flying time to Hawaii from the United States (or from ’most any point in the Pacific, for that matter) is only a few pleasant hours. Other Pacific flights are equally fast. . . for example, the 8,000 mile trip between the United States and Sydney, Australia takes less than 2 days. The same swift service carries passengers in comfort and security between points in the Orient, Australia, New Zealand,
Alaska, the United States and India...and Clipper Service continues on westward from Calcutta as part of Pan American’s unequalled Round-the-World Route.
Down the staircase to the inviting refreshment lounge on the lower-deck of this spacious Boeing-type Clipper.
The new, double-decked, Boeing-type Clipper, largest and fastest aircraft in passenger service. Now flying between U. S. and Hawaii.
eeperette* service. A good night's sleep no extra cost, on trans-Pacific Clippers.
J3¡¡(|
Pan	American World Airways
‘Trademark, Pan American Airways, Inc.
'W/c System of the Clippers
via the aw/	cf/rrm