YOUR HOTEL IN THE SKY
AMERICA”-CLASS CLIPPER
CONVENTIONAL PLANE
Spacious and completely uncrowded, the 53-passenger main cabin affords every passenger an oversized, cushioned lounge-chair, readily adjustable with just the flick of a switch.
The intimate and attractive lower-deck lounge of this 75-passenger Clipper is an invitation to stroll from your seat for exercise, refreshments, and a cpmplete change of surroundings.
The greater size of this doubledecked Clipper adds to the feeling of uncrowded ease and relaxation. Here is the only commercial transport with a luxury lounge and separate cargo I compartments on a lower deck.
More than half the seats in the main upper-deck cabin are convertible to sleeper accommodations, wider and longer even than those of standard Pullmans. In the quiet of the sound-proofed, air-conditioned Clipper, deep, refreshing sleep is a certainty.
With engine noises, and vibration kept to an amazingly low level by the scientific soundproofing and insulation of the Clipper’s walls, conversation in normal tones can be carried on even across the aisle.
CABIN PRESSURE AT" IpiÓMffàì
V0,0 WÊÊmm
CABIN PRESSURE ' AT
Your Clipper interior remains at constant sea-level pressure even at 15,000 feet. Altitude fatigue and the uncomfortable effects of changes in atmospheric pressure are eliminated.
ELEVATOR
MAXIMUM SERVICE CEILING
CLIPPER FLYING “ABOVE THE WEATHER*
CABIN ALTITUDE
Even when flying over the weather in the pressure change withifv the Clipper would still air found at higher levels, passengers be automatically adjusted to an unnotice-will feel no discomfort. Should your able 200 feet per minute—only a fraction “America”-class Clipper climb to an altitude of the speed of elevators, in modern tall of 20,000 feet, the cabin pressure would go buildings, which rise and drop at a rate of no higher than 3,000 feet. Too, the rate of 800 to 1000 feet per minute.
The large, forward luxury compartments are ideal for family groups, businessmen’s conferences, or for those who desire more privacy in flight. The seats here, too, make up into extra-wide upper and lower berths.
In this shining, stainless-steel kitchen, tempting full-course meals, prepared by expert chefs before take-off, are cooked during flight in efficient electric ovens for both passengers and crew. Coffee is made up fresh and is available whenever you wish.
Mealtime aboard the Clipper is a pleasant time for everyone with dishes inviting enough to tempt even the smallest appetites. Each seat has its own table for dining in comfort without tray knee-balancing, or for games and letter-writing.