SEE ALL OF
Visits to Hawaii should include her four principal islands. The Territory of Hawaii is a group, each unit of which possesses charm and scenic attractions distinctive from all the rest. A true impression is gained only if the visitor comes away fully imbued with the cosmopolitan spirit of Oahu, the stupendous grandeur of Hawaii, the rich beauty of Kauai, and the contrasting splendors of Maui.
Hawaiian's Douglas transports soar swiftly above the intervening waters. Automobiles roll over highways curving between, rugged mountains and varicolored seas. Excellent accommodations in up-to-date hotels and inns add to the enjoyment of noonday and overnight halts.
Oahu with its gay, flower-clad city of Honolulu, is the threshhold over which you enter this diverse territory in the center of the world's largest sea. Oahu is richly interesting, but it is upon the other islands that Nature has exerted the fullest play of her amazing whimsies.
Upon the "Big Island" of Hawaii, two great volcanoes, Mauna Loa and Kilauea, form the nucleus of Hawaii National Park. Scenery here ranks with the world's most varied and awe-inspiring wonderlands. Contrasts face you everywhere. There are vast slopes of cooled lava, jagged and cin-dery or smooth as black glass . . . weirdly-sculptured formations and intricate caverns . . . fields of blue-green waving sugarcane, red coffee berries, and tall flowering cotton . . . quaint villages along the quiet coasts of Kona or Puna. The island of Hawaii is also the repository of many historic relics and legends.
Across the Alenuihaha channel is the island of Maui, with its tremendous dor-
mant crater Haleakala. Maui is also noted for its strikingly beautiful valleys and motor drives through ever-changing scenery. Sharing the spotlight with Haleakala is lao Valley, the Yosemite of the Pacific, whose abrupt walls rise nearly 4,000 feet in a mighty amphitheatre around the rock-spire called the Needle, and the gorgeous Hana district.
Northward, the island of Kauai provides a long list of Nature's "pranks," whose names give indication of their novelty . . . Fire Works Pali, Spouting Horn, Sliding Bathtub, and many more. But Kauai also has its own special scenic wonder in lovely Waimea Canyon, a miniature Grand Canyon delicate in coloring, unique in formation, changeable in mood, and Kalalau Lookout. Kauai's luxuriant verdure has earned her the name of "Garden Isle."
The regularly-scheduled visits to the various islands are economical of time, yet leisurely, unmarred by haste. But if the charm of tropic beauty-spots entreats you to remain for longer and closer acquaintance, stopovers are readily arranged. Thus you acquire an intimate view and knowledge of the real Hawaii, the inspiring loveliness of incomparable scenery and majestic spectacles; the vigorous progress of present day life, depicted by great plantations and ranches, brisk background of legend and tradition lingering from the older, primitive Hawaii, land of kings and conquests and strange imaginative gods.
There is a Hawaiian saying: "Aole oe i noho a ike ia Hawaii" . . . "You have not lived until you have seen Hawaii." It might well have been written . . . until you've seen all of Hawaii!
HAWAIIAN AIRLINES
★
Passengers . . Mail . . Express . . Parcel Post , . Cargo
_ One Million Seven Hundred Thousand Passengers Since 1929 _ For detailed information on Hawaiian tours consult your travel agent
P millions of pounds of cargo annually. Since 1934 it has been carrying the U.S. air mail as the most southerly air mail ^ route in the nation. Hawaiian prides itself that the people of the Islands have so accepted air travel that three out of every five of the territory's 500,000 residents will fly this year. Hawaiian operates between 50 and 60 scheduled flights daily, increasing to over a hundred daily as traffic requires. Ten Douglas two-engined DC3 transports are used for scheduled passenger service between the Islands.
TIPS ON AERIAL PHOTOS
use a filter, if you have one, to cut haze. If you don't have a filter, don't be discouraged. You should get good results anyway. To avoid vibration do not rest the camera or your arms directly on the window. Reflections can be prevented by shielding camera with your body. Your hostess will be glad to point out special historical scenic spots.
We suggest you use your flight with Hawaiian Airlines to obtain unique aerial pictures of the Islands. Some of the most beautiful still and movie pictorial mementos of a visit to Hawaii have been obtained by "shooting" through the plane's windows. It's really quite simple. For best results use a shutter speed of 1/100th or faster. In black and white photography

tts azure *s famed
Island
topics
youngsterj
as they h)
>mtan Airlines' volcanic crater
£Ta»Canyon
nSh pmnacles,
Z teri/ahle "Los des °f Kilauea
b°r to the distil
Waikiki Beach t, romance ' I6
ie> as seen 4
stretchei
Pali an,
song, story an<, vanan transport.
—.smuai tiay is one of the showplaces and is ideal for
Menebune Fishpond built by ian fairyfolk in thp **-■’ '
G?rde? Island’i beach picnics.
ancient Hawai-
ltver on Kauai.
™ost Popular