
N	Pan Am’s
S	Flights
speed you to Europe comfortably, at low cost
Pan American
come aboard your Clipper
Pan American
travel agent
ut yowt
A few short hours is all it takes — in a swift Pan Am Clipper. You’ll fly high above surface weather . . . enjoy delicious meals prepared right on board . . . relax in comfortable reclining chairs. And the speed of your Clipper crossings lets you spend nearly all of your vacation time abroad. Your New York-London round trip fare is only $522 —- drops to only $425 during November through March “Thrift Season”!
Plan to tour Europe comfortably, economically
... in a smart, ‘comfortable Hillman Minx — which you may buy or rent before you start your trip, as explained on the inside pages of this folder.
This popular new way to tour Europe lets you travel the way you want ... at your own choice of pace. If you’ve always longed for an off-the-beaten-path kind of trip . . . one that will let you spend an extra day, or extra week, where you please . . . one that will take you to unspoiled corners never seen by the “guided tour” visitor . . . the new Pan Am-Rootes Clipper-and-Car Plan is for YOU !
Wherever and whenever you arrive in Europe, you’ll say “hello” to your Hillman Minx. And you’ll say “good-by” to crowded busses and trains—bid a long farewell to the budget-born necessity of a short
holiday. You’ll take to the highroads and byroads in a sturdy, smooth-driving car of your own. And by stopping at “storybook” country inns, buying souvenirs at out-of-the-way shops and fairs, you’ll find you can stretch your stay in Europe to more than twice the time you thought you could afford !
You’ll have a wonderful trip — and save money, too — with this new Clipper-and-Car Plan, offered jointly by Pan American World Airways and the Rootes Group, makers of the Hillman Minx — most popular imported car in the U. S. and Canada, and other smartly styled business and sports cars.
These are the Hillman models to choose from. And for those who prefer a larger car, Humber or Sunbeam models are also available.
He can pull your travel plans together, make your European trip a success. Perhaps save you money, as well. To learn how little it can cost to have a car in Europe, simply fill in and return the coupon on the reverse of this page. And once you’ve decided when and where you want to go, your Pan Am Travel Agent and Rootes Motors will take care of everything . . . your Clipper reservations, car registration, international touring documents and world-wide liability, fire, theft and collision insurance. Plan for your most wonderful vacation’ever this simple, low-cost way.
HILLMAN HARD-TOP OR CONVERTIBLE Lease or Purchase
HILLMAN FOUR-DOOR SEDAN Rent, Lease or Purchase
soon after your arrival you’re on your own ...
... in your own
Hillman ~fï\JLnx
In Europe, you’ll find the model you’ve chosen ready and waiting. A Rootes representative will be there, too, with licenses, driving instructions, helpful tips on continental travel.
HILLMAN HUSKY Lease or Purchase
drive where you please . . .
rent or buy your own v	Hillman
HUMBER HAWK FOUR-DOOR SEDAN Rent, Lease or Purchase
Printed in U.S.A.
and see Europe on your own
			
'4	//SA',	v/A	b