h
lours saved for business or pleasure and a trip that is a pleasure in itself . . . This is what the enjoyable air cruise to Atlantic City via New York Airways, Inc., means to you. Instead of a long, dusty trip, a comfortable flight of fifty-five minutes carries you from the heat of New York to America’s playground, Atlantic City.
During the flight in either direction you will see the towering skyline of New York City from the air; enjoy the constantly changing panorama of the Jersey shore; Lakehurst Naval Air Station; the ocean traffic lanes
along the coast; and the miles of Atlantic City’s famous Boardwalk bordered by its impressive hotels.
Busy executives may now leave their offices after a day’s work and still arrive in Atlantic City in time for a swim or a round of golf before dinner. Visitors to Atlantic City can fit a trip to New York into a crowded schedule. Families, vacation bound, may add pleasure to travel and at the same time save hours for recreation.
ATLANTIC CITY FOR PLEASURE
Atlantic City needs no introduction to Americans as a playground. Its many palatial hotels present every possible type of accommodation and cuisine. Its far-famed municipal Convention Hall is the scene of many national gatherings yearly. The Boardwalk, the great amusement piers and the beach are universally known to millions of people.
Now that you can reach Atlantic City from New York in less than an hour of pleasant and restful travel, it is possible to go there even for the day without the discomfort of long, tiresome travel hours.
MODERN "CLUB CARS" OF THE AIR
Airliners used by New York Airways, Inc., are all of foremost, dependable types, tested and proved by millions of miles of regular air transport service throughout the United States, Mexico, the West Indies, Bahamas, Central and South America . . . Fokkers, Fords, Sikorskys.
Each airliner is multi-motored and capable of sustained flight with one motor idle. The roomy cabins, restful chairs, full vision windows and modern toilet facilities provide for luxurious comfort. Veteran pilots with thousands of hours of air transport experience, men of proved judgment, make up the flight personnel of New York Airways, Inc.
Powerful radio apparatus, manned by capable radio operators, is to be found on every airliner. Constant two-way radio communication is maintained during flights with both Atlantic City and New York Airports. There is no guesswork; pilots are kept in frequent touch with weather conditions while en route. A thoughtful, well-trained steward is also one of the crew of each airliner.
WHERE AND HOW
“Via New York Airways,” embodies not only the ultimate in modern air transport facilities but also speedy transportation to airports. The New York terminus is the Glenn Curtiss Airport at North Beach, Long Island, just across the East River. 16-Cylinder Cadillac Cars leave from the Grand Central Cadillac Renting Corp., 43 Vanderbilt Avenue at 44th Street, in less than 30 minutes, connecting the heart of New York with all airliners. In Atlantic City the New York Airway’s terminal is the Atlantic City Municipal Airport, just a three-minute taxi ride from the Boardwalk.
NEW
y © M K AIRWAYS DIMC»
NEW YORK CITY
122 EAST 42nd STREET
for reservations phone Caledonia 5-2360 After hours: Caledonia 5-2276
ATLANTIC CITY
PRESIDENT HOTEL
Telephone
Atlantic City 5—1193 Atlantic City 5—1194
RESERVATIONS AND TICKETS
It is advisable to procure reservations and tickets as far in advance as possible. Just phone New York Airways, Inc., direct at the numbers listed below or consult your Hotel, Travel Bureau or theatre ticket office.
SIGHTSEEING FLIGHTS
With the same equipment and experienced pilots used for its regular services, New York Airways, Inc., conducts daily scheduled sightseeing flights over and around Atlantic City at surprisingly low rates. Airliners may also be chartered for special flights. As a delightfully different vacation diversion, why not make up your own group for one of the many enjoyable flights which are possible within nearby radius.
BAGGAGE CARRIED
Each passenger is allowed thirty pounds of baggage with no extra charge. Excess baggage will be carried at nominal rates. Arrangements have been made to care for heavy baggage as an accommodation to patrons.