SPAIN and PORTUGAL
España la bellisima — Spain the Most Beautiful. That’s how her proud people describe her . . . and you’re sure to come away agreeing with them. The place names in Spain are not spoken — they’re sung . . . Valencia, Granada, Barcelona, Madrid . . . words set to the tune of fiestas and flamenco dancing, in the tempo of bullfights and castanets.
Look long enough and you’ll find your castle in Spain, perhaps on a hilltop just outside enchanting Toledo, or perched on the shores of the blue Mediterranean. And wherever you go in Spain you’ll hear the music of flashing-eyed gypsies, savor delicious food and sherry wine, admire Moorish architecture and medieval towns.
Brilliant colors that inspired the great El Greco, Goya, Velasquez will dance before your eyes . . . and your camera. Flaming rainbows of flowers and multi-hued birds . . . pastel painted houses . . . native costumes in a riot of colors. And the Prado in Madrid boasts some of the world’s finest paintings. Barcelona nestles on the Spanish Riviera, looking down on castle-dotted Costa Brava . .. and it’s only an hour by air to the magic of Majorca in the Balearic Islands, where prices are so surprisingly low.
Spain the Most Beautiful. . . where your saddest word will be adios.
The moment you arrive in Portugal you’ll realize you’re in a different world ... a world of storybook fishing villages, mosaic artistry, rambling vineyards and merry, friendly people. Coimbra with its mountainside university . . . Setubal. . . Oporto by the sea. Smart, sophisticated Lisbon, crossroad of the Continent, with a pulsating glamour all its own. Nearby Estoril where you’ll rub elbows with kings and nobles at the famous International Casino. And just a hundred miles away, the miraculous Shrine of Fatima.
where to stay: Europe offers everything from luxurious hotels to quiet inexpensive -pensions. Rates are much lower during the Fall/Winter season. Have your reservations before you go. currency: Each country has its own monetary unit, all quite different from U. S. currency. It’s a good idea to take along a little “local” currency of each country you’ll visit. Your Pan Am Travel Agent will tell you how to obtain it in the U. S. before you leave. Also, remember to have a few dollar bills with you for possible use in Europe — and they’ll be needed, too, when you land in the U. S. Recognized traveler’s checks are accepted throughout Europe. The Clipper Passenger’s Currency Converter lists monetary units for many countries and their U. S. equivalent. travel documents: Your U. S. passport is all you’ll need for visits up to three months long in just about any country in Europe
.. . visa requirements are disappearing, but check the countries you plan to visit. Take your driver’s license if you plan to drive while on the Continent. Have proof also of prior purchase of watches, cameras, jewelry that you take with you, to avoid having to pay custom duties on them when you re-enter the U. S. Also have your vaccination certificate with you when you return. tipping: Usually it’s included in your hotel bill or restaurant check. It’s not necessary to give more unless you’re exceptionally pleased with the service. Where tips aren’t included in bills and checks, 10 or 15 per cent is the general rule. do’s and don’t’s: Europe is more formal in dress than America. Women, for example, do not wear slacks on the street or in public places. Everybody shakes hands. In general, forms of etiquette and good manners are the same as at home.
/\/ *