GREAT BRITAIN and IRELAND
On all sides of you, England glows like the silken threads in a priceless, subtly-hued tapestry ... as do Ireland, Scotland and Wales, each with its own individual appeal. Countrysides rich in pageantry, gracious traditions and quiet friendly people . . . echoes of a thousand yesteryears, both historic and literary . . . tiny seaside towns and country villages . . . names and scenes that you’ll want to capture forever.
Ageless London, with her historic face toward you, offers Westminster Abbey, Buckingham Palace, famed Piccadilly Circus and Soho . . . cobble-stoned streets . . . and the Thames flowing under London Bridge. But London is not aslumber. She can match your every mood — from gala theatre-going fun to festive night club entertainment, from relaxing strolls in her many parks to shopping in world-famous stores.
You’ll attend Festivals while in England, too — Old Vic, and Shakespeare Memorial Theatre — visit tradition-rich Canterbury, Oxford, and find bargains in silver, tweeds, cashmere sweaters and socks.
Up north, you’ll swing through Bonnie Scotland to the tempo of pipers wearing kilts and tartans. In Northern Ireland, thrill to the beauty of a soft, green countryside . . . steep, wooded valleys . . . Giant’s Causeway... picturesque ruins of castles, shrines and monasteries. There’s bustling Belfast and the Mountains of Mourne in the north. Wales beckons, too, with her castles and cottages and her haunting folk songs.
Eire is another world altogether . . . rich in lilting rhythmic speech and heroes fondly remembered. There’s thriving Dublin, Killarney, Galway Bay, Innisfree. And everywhere you look, you’ll see an Irish smile of welcome.
as many as 16 Extra Cities — some of them national capitals, some famous resorts — all of them fascinating. You can go via one European gateway and return through another — take your choice of London, Paris, Glasgow, Shannon or Lisbon.
Your PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent can tell you of the various routings and help you plan to include Extra Cities. YOU CAN TRAVEL NOW BECAUSE YOU CAN PAY LATER You don’t have to put off your Clipper trip to Europe a minute longer. There’s no need to wait till you can pay cash in advance. Or to touch your savings or investments. Because Pan American’s Pay Later Plan permits you to go on your trip right now . . . pay as little as 10% down . . . and then take care of the balance out of income in convenient amounts over a period of up to 24 months. It’s easily arranged through any PAA office or authorized Pan Am
Travel Agent in a single visit with a single signature. No collateral, no complicated financing.
Under the Plan you can budget your air transportation and all or any part of your hotel accommodations, sight-seeing and ground travel abroad — practically everything. You can even tour Europe by rented car under the Plan. That is, fly to Europe, then hire or buy a European car for private, leisurely sight-seeing. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am can help you make arrangements.
SAVE DURING winter MONTHS More people are going to Europe during the winter months because so many things cost less — even your Clipper fare under Pan Am’s Family Fare Plan. Yet many consider winter the best time to visit Europe. For it’s the opera, theatre and concert season.
The gay continental life is at its height in romantic cities like
(continued on -page 8)
