I I
PAN AM CUPPERS THE FINEST, FASTEST WAY TO EUROPE
THE MIRACLE OF JET CLIPPERS
. . .AND YOU
A wondrous new concept of world travel awaits you on your first Jet flight. The serene quiet of a Jet Clipper cabin is hard to imagine ... a pleasure you have to experience to believe. You talk in soft, normal tones with your fellow
passengers. There are no propellers, no pistons, no vibrations ... just soothing, relaxing quietness. Comfort, too, is superb. Each Jet Clipper has a luxurious first class lounge . . . roomy, quiet, tastefully decorated for warm sociability. Service teams, with four complete galleys, serve delicious meals deftly and swiftly.
And your Jet Clipper flight is wondrously smooth, too. It’s as if you were floating on a cloud — though actually you’re traveling along at close to 600 miles an hour!
Then, before you know it — in less than seven surprisingly short hours from the U.S.A. — you’re in London and will soon be listening to the majestic tones of Westminster’s Big Ben. Or, you find yourself in Paris, only moments away from sipping an aperitif in a delightful sidewalk cafe. Jet Clipper travel opens up a truly new world — a world you can grasp — a world you can make your own. With travel time cut almost in half, you can see the sights you’ve longed for, realize the opportunities — in pleasure, in business — that once seemed too remote.
This is the new concept of Jet world-travel. But there’s another part that’s equally important — the unbelievably wonderful experience of flying in a Jet Clipper. So come aboard. Relax while cabin attendants see to your every need. There’s no extra charge, you know, for the delicious full-course meals served piping hot from the Clipper galleys . . . and no tipping—ever—on any Pan Am Clipper.
What’s more, no other airline can offer so impressive a selection of big U. S.-built Jet aircraft: Boeing 707’s, Boeing Intercontinentals and Douglas DC-8C’s — all in service on the world’s most experienced airline. And on any Clipper flight you’ll discover many reasons why travelers prefer Pan Am above all others.
YOUR CHOICE OF SERVICE
Pan Am offers unmatched experience . . . unmatched flight frequency . . . unmatched alternate routings . . . handy departure points for Europe such as New York, Boston, Washington/Baltimore, Philadelphia on the East Coast; Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle on the West Coast, via the Polar Route; Chicago and Detroit direct from the Midwest. And you have a choice of the following services:
2