j; i '
ITALY and the RIVIERA
On the Italian Riviera, you’ll be entranced by the elegant hotels and Casino of San Remo... marvel at the charms of Portofino, favorite of the international set . . . sip Caffe Espresso at sidewalk cafes amid a happy linguistic free-for-all. And there’s still more to see in Italy. . . awe-inspiring Vatican City, Sorrento, the ruins of Pompeii, Pisa, the Milan cathedral, La Scala, Florence masterpieces by Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci. From the mainland, cross the Strait of Messina and you’re on the lush green Island of Sicily.
To get your free copy of Pan Am’s exciting, illustrated Bargain Book that’s filled with concise, pertinent details on ideal tours that you can take, ask your authorized Pan Am Travel Agent or write direct to Pan American, P. O. Box 431, Boston 2, Massachusetts. WHY IS PAN AMERICAN THE MOST POPULAR TRANSATLANTIC AIRLINE? You could name many reasons: frequent schedules to all 6 continents, varied routings and alternate gateways, choice of services and accommodations. But perhaps the most important reasons are Pan Am’s experience and know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb service you receive.
Pan Am, you know, has an enviable reputation in Jet service, daily to Europe ... is first in service, convenience and comfort. And it has the unequalled record of over 80,000 transatlantic flights, as well as 50,000 transpacific flights, 37,000 Equator Crossings and 4,000 Round-the-World trips.
GUIDE TO THE WORLD — NEW HORIZONS For authentic, up-to-the-minute data on what to wear, see and do in 92 countries all over the world, get your copy of New Horizons World Guide, Pan Am’s own fact-packed best-seller. Latest edition adds new countries with reports carefully gathered by on-the-spot experts. Long used by the State Department in kits for overseas personnel, New Horizons World Guide is available from your Travel Agent or any Pan Am office for $2.
OFF THE CUFF TRAVEL TIPS
The quick facts on Europe which follow will help you have more fun. And Pan Am’s NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE gives more specific details for each country.	(continued on next 'page)
Ever drift along a Venice Canal in the moonlight, listening to the soft strains of a haunting mandolin? Ever make a wish by the sparkling Trevi fountain in Rome? Or watch the deep azure of Capri’s waters turn to an emerald green? Well, such dream-filled moments are waiting for you — all these . . . and more. On your swing through Southern Europe you’ll fall in love with the Riviera’s delightful, leisurely pace . . . Nice’s luxurious hotels and neighboring Monte Carlo’s pulsating excitement. Cannes, Juan-les-Pins . . . and days of golden relaxation.