ANY
ie LOW COUNTRIES
s ... city of excitement and romance. What better place to start your visit to the ay’s Paris is gayer, more enticing than ever. Montmartre in the shadows of lovely -«eft Bank with its Pigalle and can-can dancers . . . the Arc de Triomphe and its re’s the Louvre, too, with the Venus de Milo, the Mona Lisa and other inspiring otrp Dame, the Sorbonne ... sidewalk cafes and the rippling Seine. In delightful con-itah excitement of Paris is the beguiling, picture-postcard appeal of the Provinces .. . i country, Brittany and Normandy. The Riviera’s famous beaches await you, too. 3? Magniftque!
ertain entrancing charm all its own ... a basic beauty that is never-changing. . . , story-book folkways ... and everywhere you’re met with a heart-warming smile urself!” Progressive Germany has some of the most modern visitor accommodations want to get to know Germany better — thriving Hamburg . . . historic Berlin . . . famous night clubs and cabarets . . . Munich and its glowing Festivals at the Gate-and no Grand Tour is complete without a cruise along the Rhine.
3ut wherever you pause in the heart of the Continent... in France or Germany, he Netherlands, Belgium or Luxembourg, in Vienna or in Switzerland’s breath-aking Alps . . . you’ll have a lifetime of memories in the making.

SWITZERLAND
You’ll find a matchless variety of year-round attractions in the Land of the Alps — deep blue lakes. . . picturesque old villages . . . sparkling modern cities . . . swank resorts that have attracted generations of vacationists. Zurich, largest of Swiss cities, will captivate you ... its magnificent schools, world-famed opera, and fabulous shops that offer the very best of Europe’s finest wares. Ski fans will find the fame of Switzerland’s slopes have not been exaggerated, nor has its friendliness, cleanliness and fun-loving spirit.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT FOR PAN AM’S SCANDINAVIA FOLDER.
AUSTRIA
This enchanting country now is more beautiful than ever . . . the panoramic scenes on all sides . . . Salzburg Festival. . . Viennese coffee shops . .. skiing in close-at-hand Tyrol and Arlberg. The air is crisp, clear, invigorating — and there is music everywhere. For an unforgettable cruise, be sure to take a steamship trip down the blue Danube at blossomtime.
7