You seek experience
every day you look for it in the people to whom you
entrust your health, the education of your children, the care of your money. You look for experience in every important choice you make. For when you seek experience, you also seek the peace of mind that comes with knowing you have chosen wisely and well.
It’s no surprise then that so many overseas travelers put their trust in Pan American. For over the years Pan Am has established itself as the World's Most Experienced Airline.
Enjoy the Priceless Extra of Experience on your next trip abroad
From the moment you choose Pan Am—you have a feeling of confidence to be enjoyed every moment of the way.
The Priceless Extra is reflected in everything that Pan Am does. You see it in the expertness and courtesy of Pan Am people on the telephone and in the ticket office. You see it in the faces of Pan Am personnel—veteran pilots and flight crews trained to exacting U.S. standards. You see it in the spotless perfection of your airplane, inside and out. You see it in the gracious flight attendants who serve you. And in the rare wines and delicious food—the banquet catered by Maxim's of Paris.
Today Pan Am flies the world’s largest over-ocean Jet fleet. No other airline can compare with its world-wide service . . . and no other airline offers you direct one-plane service to 11 United States cities.
In the next few months thousands of travelers will board Pan Am jets to the U.S.A. and other points throughout the world. Included in the price of their tickets will be Pan Am’s Priceless Extra of Experience. It costs no extra for this extra peace of mind.
World’s Most Experienced Airline
v >7'- /	/ v \ / 7* v \ X y	'>K / v >*' 'v
.» u o o »> o .u	o	t>	o k,	i.
»u o >> o u o
O	O	O	O	u l)	H
I O ij o O i) t> <•> > o o U
A)
pa^ ¿vivi gives you priceless new
ADVERTISING
TO HELP YOU SELL MORE SEATS THAN EVER BEFORE!
There’s good news ahead for you in the International Editions of TIME. Starting in current issues, Pan Am backs up your sales efforts with one of its most dramatic and exciting advertising campaigns in history!
As indicated by the advertisements we’ve reproduced here, the theme, “Pan Am gives you the priceless extra of experience,” will be prominently displayed throughout our entire campaign.
In each ad, you’ll be reading about additional Pan Am extras. For example, “the most wonderful food in the sky”. . .“the most frequent jets from Europe to the U. S. A.”
You get the idea—and so will your customers!