INCOME
STATEMENT
To Our Stockholders:
Your check is enclosed in payment of a dividend of 20 4 a share payable today to our stockholders of record at the close of business on October 21, 1960. Dividend payments have been made each year since 1941. The New York Stock Exchange, in cooper-
Imn with the U. S. Treasury Department, as requested the Company to bring to the attention of its stockholders that dividends, whether paid to you or credited to your account, must be included in your U. S. income tax return. Accuracy in reporting such amounts, even if small, will benefit both the recipient and the Government, and will avoid the possibility of expensive enforcement action that might otherwise be necessary.
Dividends paid by Pan American on its capital stock during 1960:
Amount
Date Paid	Record Date	Per Share
Feb.	11	Jan.	22	204
May	13	Apr.	15	204
Aug.	12	July	22	204
Nov.	10	Oct.	21	20	4
Recently your Company signed a lease for 16 floors in the Pan Am Building — now being constructed adjacent to Grand Central Station in the heart of New York City, the world’s greatest center of international trade and transportation.
Pan American expects to take occupancy in the Spring of 1963.
At that time there will be brought together under one roof your Company’s entire executive and headquarters staffs for traffic and sales, reservations, communications, accounting, legal, engineering, supply, industrial relations — all of the integrated services which are essential to the effective administration of an airline operating throughout the world, and which must now be carried on at widely dispersed locations in the New York metropolitan area.
From an advertising standpoint, the identification of the Pan American name and trade-mark with a modern, outstanding building in the Grand Central Area should add a most effective support to the Company’s sales effort in the vital New York market.
Sflsr-J 5 m
1= ■
. ■
¡»illWliMSÄ
IPili
..
.
President
November 10, 1960 135 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y.