pilot who had been co-pilot on the very first Key West to Havana flight, was about to make history again. The dock crew cast off the lines and the huge Martin flying boat, the China Clipper, taxiied out into San Francisco Bay.
As bands played and hundreds of boats in the harbor tried to drown each other out with their whistles, the China Clipper opened its throttles and picked up speed, spray dashing from its sides and glistening in the afternoon sunlight. It rose quickly, and to the cheers of the crowd swept past the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge and disappeared into the Pacific haze. Its destination: Manila, capital of the Philippines, 8,200 miles away. It was the start of the first scheduled transpacific commercial flight.
The flight of the China Clipper was the culmination of nearly five years of planning and hard work. In 1931, after making the decision to open a route to Asia, Pan Am assigned Charles Lindbergh to survey a way across the Pacific via Alaska. His wife, Anne Morrow Lindbergh, served as his radio operator and later wrote a book about her experience, "North to the Orient’’.
This northern route to Asia was later abandoned because of the political complications of getting permission to land in Siberia. An alternate route via Honolulu, Midway Island, Wake Island, and Guam—the route of the old sailing vessels—was decided on. Now Pan Am faced two problems, which other airlines had always believed were insurmountable.
The first problem was to develop an aircraft that could carry an economic payload over the long 2,400-mile first stage from California to
Hawaii. At that time, few commercial aircraft could travel even a quarter of that distance.
As it had before, Pan Am took the initiative. It presented its specifications to leading aircraft manufacturers, and then, working in close cooperation with one of them, developed the largest air transport ever built, the Martin 130 flying boat. The world’s first truly long-range aircraft, it would become the principal aircraft on Pan Am’s Pacific routes.
The second problem was to build bases to fuel and service the planes en route. Fortunately, all of the islands along the route belonged to the U.S. But a dot on a map and permission to land do not make an air base. Each island required a landing float, fuel tanks, a powerful radio station, meteorological equipment, a crew to man the base and facilities to house and maintain them. At Hawaii and Manila the task presented no unusual difficulties. Guam, too, was a regular steamer call and possessed resources of its own. But Midway was only a cable station and Wake was a deserted atoll that no one had even stepped foot on in a decade. Pan Am decided to send out a single expedition to set up all five bases—an awesome undertaking.
Early in 1935 the chartered steamship "North Haven’’ left San Francisco, its holds and decks crammed with tons of supplies and construction materials, including diesel generators, water distillation plants, motor launches, tractors, dynamite, food, and a quarter of a million gallons of aviation gasoline. Also aboard were 74 construction workers and 44 airline technicians—most of them young and adventurous, all of them either drawn
from Pan Am’s staff or hired by the airline for this job.
At Midway, and again at Wake, the ship had to anchor outside a reef, miles offshore, in heavy twelve-foot swells. The supplies and equipment were brought in on rafts, with workers swimming alongside to guide them through the rough surf and rain squalls and up onto the beach. It was more like a military landing than an airline operation—and almost as perilous.
The crews went to work, and in just months the bases were built and in operation, ready to welcome the first flight of the China Clipper. The impossible had been accomplished— again.
After the years of preparation and the tumultuous send-off in San Francisco, the flight itself was almost anti-climactic. Some fog and bad weather were encountered on the way, but the China Clipper, averaging 143 miles an hour and stopping overnight at each one of the island bases, made the crossing according to plan. It landed in the harbor at Manila six days after leaving San Francisco. Flying time: 59 hours, 48 minutes.
As soon as they stepped ashore the crew was besieged by reporters. What was it like, flying across the vast Pacific? Captain Musick, a man of few words, described the flight as "without incident”. That wasn’t enough for the news-hungry correspondents. Did you ever become alarmed? Didn’t you get lost? Weren’t you frightened when you found yourself in fog over the middle of the ocean? To which the China Clipper crew could only answer, as one of them wrote later, that "we knew there
6