among the first on the scene with life-saving medical supplies and equipment.
A headline on a Life Magazine cover, "Jet Age Swells Tourist Tide”, was no news to Pan Am. In the summer of 1964 Pan Am was scheduling 214 jet flights weekly across the Atlantic, and the following summer the number jumped to 258—50 percent more than the number of flights offered by the old piston-engine aircraft and each one carrying three times as many passengers!
In 1965 Pan Am found itself at war for the third time. Contributing more to the Vietnam military flight command than any other airline, Pan Am committed up to 20 of its jets to fly essential supplies, mail and personnel across the Pacific. When a Rest and Rehabilitation Program was established to give weary fighting men brief leaves in Hong Kong, Tokyo and other Asian cities, Pan Am offered to provide transportation for a token payment of one dollar a month. The planes, mostly DC-6Bs, were furnished comfortably and servicemen were given hot towels, first class meals and the kind of service a traveling VIP would expect. By March of 1967 Pan Am was flying 13 DC-6Bs and two 707s on R & R flights. It was estimated that the first four months of the program cost Pan Am almost $3 million. At that point the government started reimbursing the airline for its actual costs, and continued to do so for the rest of the time the program was in operation.
Look ahead. Never be satisfied. Find better ways to do the job. Pan Am bywords, and they continued to be words to live by during the 60’s and 70’s.
Having led the world into the jet age, Pan Am now set about to use the fantastic potential of jet power to further revolutionize flying. Working closely with Boeing, Pan Am developed a huge new aircraft—one that far exceeded in size and capabilities anything that anyone had ever imagined.
Called the Boeing 747, it could carry two and a half times as many passengers as the 707 and fly faster, higher and farther. It would also prove to be safer, more efficient, more comfortable, and easier to fly than any long-
range aircraft ever built.
In April, 1966, Pan Am placed an order for 25 747s at a cost of $600 million—double the commitment made in 1955 when it had ordered its first 707s and DC-8s—and, as usual, Pan Am’s order was the first. On January 21, 1970, the first Pan Am 747 went into service between New York and London. As additional 747s were delivered the smaller jets were phased out.
More like a small cruise ship than an airplane, Pan Am’s 747 is regarded by many as
Interior of Pan Am 747 jet freighter. It can carry 100 tons of cargo.
25