Juan Terry Trippe, who had guided the airline for over four decades, retired. Pan Am’s spectacular growth through the years would not have been possible without Juan Trippe’s imagination, ingenuity, and unshakeable faith in the future of air travel. The current chairman and chief executive officer of Pan American World Airways, Inc. is William T. Sea-well. A former U.S. Air Force Brigadier General, William Seawell had been commandant of the Air Force Academy and, after retiring from the service, a business executive. Interviewed shortly after he took over as Pan Am’s new chief he stressed his conviction that "the airline industry is an important industry to our country, and Pan American is one of the most important elements of the industry.” As to when he would be satisfied with his accomplishments as chairman he smiled and said, "That’s the great part of this job. You will never be satisfied.”
His actions have lived up to his words, and under William Seawell’s leadership Pan Am continues to set the pace. The newest addition to its fleet of Jet Clippers—and another Pan Am first—is the ultra long-range 747SP (Special Performance). Forty-seven feet shorter than the standard 747, it was designed to fly farther and at higher altitudes than its larger sister ship.
With the longest range of any commercial aircraft, the 747SP inaugurated the first nonstop New York to Tokyo service on April 26, 1976. The 6,916-mile flight took 13 hours and 40 minutes, slashing almost four hours from the previous flight time. Passenger response to the new service was so enthusiastic that Pan Am increased its schedule from three times a week to daily—and travelers started calling it the "New Orient Express”.
Pan Am 747SPs now also fly nonstop from San Francisco to New Zealand and from Australia to San Francisco—7,400 miles in a little over 13 hours.
On May 1, 1976, the 747SP Clipper Liberty Bell took off from John F. Kennedy Airport in New York and headed east on a record-breaking round-the-world flight. Carrying 96 passengers, the new Clipper made only two refueling stops—at Delhi, India, and Tokyo —and landed back at JFK 46 hours after taking off, beating the old record by 15V2 hours.
The flight of Clipper Liberty Bell was a dramatic demonstration of the long-range capability of Pan Am’s newest jets—and was also new proof that after half a century Pan Am still leads the way.
Pan Am Building, New York City, headquarters of Pan American World Ainvays, Inc.

fitli 111
..
ftsaSssSss.
3§pi|
mmi