It was a decision that rocked the industry, stirred the imagination of the public . . . and changed the world.
On October 13, 1955, Pan Am announced its decision to order 45 U.S.-built jet transports at the staggering cost of $269 million. It was the first order for jets placed by an American airline and the largest commitment ever made by any airline for new equipment.
It was a momentous decision but not an impulsive one. In fact, Pan Am project engineers had been working on jet transports since just before the end of the war—over 10 years.
Why the switch to jets ? Because the conventional piston engine with a conventional propeller had about reached its limit. From a practical engineering standpoint a piston-engine plane simply couldn’t be made to go much faster or develop much more power. But a jet engine could pack three to four times as much power in a smaller, lighter package. This in turn made much faster, much larger aircraft feasible—both important factors in achieving more economical transportation.
Still, other airlines hesitated. They were making good profits, they had a tremendous investment in their piston-engine fleets, and while they conceded that jets were fine for military fighters or bombers—well, they said, let’s wait a few more years before we use them commercially.
It was history repeating itself. In 1955, as in countless times in the past, Pan Am alone had the vision and the courage to risk everything to develop a better way to transport people
and cargo. And the new jet aircraft it was ordering represented a much, much better way. Once Pan Am made its move, of course, other airlines—many not too happily—had to follow.
Three years later, on October 26, 1958, Pan Am inaugurated U.S. flag jet service to Europe with the Jet Clipper America. A Boeing 707, it incorporated many of the features of the Air Force’s B-47 bomber, including the same swept-back wings and podded engines slung beneath and forward of the wings. Douglas-built DC-8s, almost identical to the 707s, joined Pan Am’s fleet early in I960.
The impact of the jets was immediate. In one bold stroke Pan Am had slashed flying times almost in half. Seven hours from New York to Paris, six hours to London. San Francisco to Honolulu in five hours. For the first time in history a traveler could go from anywhere to anywhere in the world — in just hours. And for almost a year, only Pan Am had these swift new jets.
Passengers loved them. Smooth, quiet, soaring high above the weather—it was a brand new flying experience. They liked something else: the new economy class fares that were introduced almost simultaneously with the jets.
23