Fifty years ago anyone who wanted to travel overseas needed a lot of money . . . and a lot of time. It took almost a week by steamship to go from New York to Southampton, England; 20 days to Rio de Janeiro; 19 days from San Francisco to Japan. The average wage-earner with only two weeks of vacation a year lived his entire life without ever leaving his homeland. In fact, the idea of a trip to Europe, or Asia, or South America never even entered his mind.
Then a 28-year-old World War I naval aviator named Juan Terry Trippe appeared on the scene. He believed oceans were for flying over as well as for sailing on . . . and he backed his belief by founding a new airline to do just that. With a fleet of two Fokker F-7 trimotor airplanes, 24 employees, and a contract to fly U.S. mail between Key West, Florida and Havana, Cuba, Pan American Airways started operations. The date was October 28, 1927.
The first passengers were flown on January 16, 1928. Fare: $50 one way.
People liked the new service, and during 1928 more than 1,100 travelers flew Pan Am between Florida and Cuba. Pan Am’s fleet grew to seven aircraft and the number of employees increased to 118. One of the new employees was a pilot who less than a year earlier had thrilled the world by making the first solo nonstop flight across the Atlantic: Charles Lindbergh.
While Lindbergh surveyed new routes to other Caribbean islands, Mexico, and Central and South America, Juan Trippe negotiated for landing rights. Additional air mail contracts were bid for and won. New, longer-range aircraft were built to Pan Am’s specifications.
But before Pan Am could start its expanded Latin American operations, bases had to be built along the routes. Often, in Central and
South America, they were hacked out of dense, unexplored jungles. Pan Am survey planes would fly low over the crocodile-infested swamps, locate a suitable site, then drop sacks of flour to make white splotches in the matted green of the jungle. Construction crews hired by Pan Am would come in from the nearest town by canoe, on burro or on foot, and clear the ground. Food and supplies were dropped from planes. Indians, often hostile until won over with dime store trinkets, were put to work, trekking from the nearest seaport to the inland base with five-gallon cans of aviation gasoline on their heads—then fleeing in terror when the "thunder birds’’ arrived. Eventually Pan Am would establish 160 land and marine bases and 93 ground radio and weather stations in Latin America.
There were some areas, such as the Yucatan coast, that proved to be totally inaccessible by land routes; and the volcanic terrain of the Leeward and Windward Islands was considered unsuitable for airport construction. The solution was the new Sikorsky S-38 amphibian "that carried its own airport on its bottom.” For years Pan Am’s versatile Sikorskys were the only aircraft serving many destinations.
By the end of 1929, just two years after its first flight, Pan Am was a major international airline. It had a 12,000-mile route system linking 23 countries, including Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico in the Caribbean; Mexico, British Honduras, and Panama; and Colombia on the continent of South America.
It was about this time that Juan Trippe, a
2