flew President Roosevelt and his advisers to the summit conference at Casablanca. Other Pan Am aircraft carried top U.S. generals and admirals, Britain’s Prime Minister Winston Churchill, the Netherlands’ Queen Wilhel-mina, Greece’s King George and scores of
other high-ranking diplomats and military men. Pan Am flew more than 700 of these special missions.
Although there were many acts of heroism and moments of high drama, Pan Am’s major contribution throughout the war was doing what it had learned to do so expertly in peace-
time: the building and outfitting of overseas air bases and the fast, dependable transportation of people and cargo over long distances.
During the war years Pan Am built some 50 airports in 15 different countries, almost all of them in remote, often hostile areas. As the largest air transport contractor to the army and navy, Pan Am flew over 90 million aircraft miles for the government and made more than 18,000 ocean crossings. In the first years of the war, before the operation was taken over by the U.S. Air Transport Command, it ferried 542 bombers and transports to the war zones. Pan Am also trained more than 5,000 military pilots and thousands of mechanics, and established schools and procedures for the training of many more thousands.
And Pan Am paid a price: more than 200 employees gave their lives, an unknown number were imprisoned in enemy prison camps, at least a dozen aircraft were lost.
Not many people know about Pan Am’s role in World War II. There was almost no publicity. There were no medals, no glory. It was all done in the line of duty. Pan Am’s herculean efforts to keep supply lines open throughout the world was one of America’s most valuable secret weapons.
When the war ended, Pan Am could look back with pride on a job well done. Its unique experience, gained during years of pioneering air transportation in Latin America and across the Atlantic and Pacific, had been the basis for the country’s entire wartime international transport operations — and significantly influenced the war’s outcome.
Airport worker at African base signals incoming aircraft.
• .. J

Air base under construction in Africa. Pan Am built 50 airports in 15 countries for military use.
16