journey was the longest ever made by a commercial aircraft and the first around the world. The Pacific Clipper had flown over three oceans, made 18 stops in 12 different countries, and crossed the equator six times.
Pan Am’s experiences during the early days of World War II were unmatched by any other civilian organization, but there was no time to dwell on them. With the entrance of the United States into the war, virtually all of Pan Am’s equipment and personnel were assigned, directly or indirectly, to the war effort. Pan Am, the nation’s only overseas airline, had a very special responsibility and it called on its 9,000 employees to respond. They rose to the challenge.
Pan Am pilots and navigators were called in to advise the military on the techniques of overseas flying and to start training crews. At Pan Am bases many departments started working around the clock. Doubling and tripling of maintenance personnel resulted in a 50 percent cut in servicing time and a 100 percent increase in aircraft utilization. Most Clippers flew twice as many hours, twice as often as they had in peacetime. The plush interiors of the B-314 flying boats were stripped to wartime austerity and priority cargo was packed into every available inch of space. The exteriors were camouflaged by painting them with drab sea-grey paint.
During the first year of the war records were shattered and reshattered. Feats that would have been considered miraculous in normal times were now all in a day’s work. In 1942 Pan Am Clippers made 1,219 Atlantic cross-
ings. The amount of cargo carried increased sharply—from 16,500 pounds in 1941 to over three million pounds in 1942!
It seemed that transatlantic flight crews were in the air more than they were on the ground. Captain H. E. Gray, who was to serve as president of Pan Am in the 1960’s, made nine crosssings in nine days. Another crew made 12 in 13 days. Captain R. O. D. Sullivan made a total of 103 crossings of the Atlantic in 1942. When he became the first person in history to make a hundred aerial crossings, he wasn’t even aware of it. Bringing his oil-stained, camouflaged Clipper down on Long Island Sound, he had to be told of his achievement by Pan Am’s ground personnel. Asked to describe his feelings at reaching this aviation milestone he answered, "Well, I do feel a little hungry.”
Although the Japanese had taken over all of its Central Pacific bases except Honolulu, Pan Am nevertheless continued to be active in Asia. Pan Am’s affiliate on the mainland of China, the China National Aviation Corporation, made a heroic evacuation of some 275 U.S., British and Chinese civilians from Hong Kong, accomplished by pilots and ground crews working without rest for 72 straight hours. In April, 1942, Pan Am played a key role in evacuating more than 4,000 civilians and wounded soldiers from Burma, at the same time flying in supplies for the forces struggling to hold back the Japanese invaders —much of it accomplished in violent monsoon weather and under constant threats from enemy aircraft.
To expedite shipments to the Asian and Af-
AMERK