(Commuters read about it on their way to work the morning of May 20, 1939. The lead paragraph of the story on page one of The New York Times was typical:
"Exactly twelve years after Colonel Charles Lindbergh began his historic New York to Paris hop in a single-engine monoplane, Pan American Airways’ giant four-engine 4lV2-ton Yankee Clipper will take off from Port Washington, L.I., about one o’clock this afternoon on the first regularly scheduled airplane flight between this country and Europe.”
The Yankee Clipper, destined to be the last of the big flying boats, had been built by Boeing. In 1936, just months after inaugurating its San Francisco to Manila service, Pan Am wrote Boeing asking them if they were up to the conception and construction of a long-range, four-engine marine aircraft that could profitably transport passengers and cargo across the Atlantic. They hesitated, then agreed to try. The result was the B-314, for its time an unusually spacious, powerful airplane. It was another instance of Pan Am serving as the catalyst—and the B-314, like almost all the other aircraft Pan Am helped develop, would win an honored place in aviation’s record books.
The crews that pioneered the Pacific routes had been trained in Latin America. The men who would fly the Atlantic were seasoned veterans of both Pan Am’s Latin American and Pacific services—which meant they were the most experienced pilots in the world. Captain Mike La Porte, at the controls of the
Yankee Clipper on May 20 , had made 50 Pacific crossings—so when he told the everpresent reporters covering his departure that although he thought it was "fine to be on the first flight, this is pretty much a routine operation of the line,” he wasn’t putting on an act for them. He meant it. Nevertheless, the first flight of the Yankee Clipper did excite the general public, and a crowd was on hand to see it leave. And as he had before the China Clipper’s inaugural flight, President Roosevelt sent his congratulations. "Pan American Airways deserves great credit for bringing about this new era in transatlantic communications,” he wired.
After taking off, Captain La Porte swung the Clipper over the grounds of the World’s Fair where the Aviation Building was being dedicated. He dipped a wing in salute and radioed to the dignitaries below his acknowledgment of their good wishes. "We are proceeding to Europe,” were his final words to them as he headed out over the ocean.
Twenty-six hours later, after one refueling stop in the Azores, the Yankee Clipper put down in the harbor at Lisbon, Portugal. After an overnight stay it flew to Marseilles, France. As on other Pan Am first flights, the Yankee Clipper carried only mail. The first passenger flight took place the following month when 22 passengers were flown to Europe on the Dixie Clipper, another Boeing 314.
Pan Am was authorized to fly across the Atlantic on two different routes: the middle Atlantic route via the Azores and Lisbon, ter-
minating at Marseilles; and the northern route to Southampton, England with stopovers at New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Ireland. In the beginning Pan Am operated a weekly round trip to France and semi-weekly flights to England. By the end of July both routes were on a full one-a-week schedule and the demand for space was growing.
The B-314 set new standards for airborne luxury. Meals were served in a 14-seat dining room, with complete formal table settings. Every overseas passenger had a berth, and there was a private suite in the rear—the "bridal suite” someone called it. Passengers would find their shoes polished overnight, just as in a first class European hotel. Fare: $375 one way, $675 round trip.
But while people everywhere marveled at the size, range and comfort of the new Clippers flying the Atlantic, to the people at Pan Am they represented just one more stage in a never-ending process of development. Juan Trippe expressed this attitude in September, 1939, when he said: "These transoceanic Clippers are the 'giant’ airplanes of today. But actually they are the last of the 'little’ airplanes. There is a need for great ocean airliners two to three times the size of these Clippers . . .”
However, several years would pass before his vision would become a reality. World War II, which erupted in Europe just three months after the start of passenger service across the Atlantic, and would involve the United States two years later, halted the construction of new
9