eration with Pan Am’s engineers, it was the roomiest, most luxurious plane since the old flying boats. With sleeping berths for overnight passengers and a circular stairway leading down to a cozy lounge and bar, the Strato-cruiser quickly became a favorite of comfort-loving overseas travelers.
When the Korean war started, Pan Am was again called on to assist the U.S. military transport services. For over three years Pan Am operated a cargo and personnel shuttle service between the U.S. West Coast and Tokyo, during which time over 100,000 passengers and 23 million pounds of cargo were flown across the Pacific. Pan Am committed eight DC-4 s and two Stratocruisers to the effort.
Pan Am took on another kind of activity that would continue for many years— the providing of technical assistance to the airlines of smaller foreign nations, working with them to bring their operations up to Pan Am’s own high standards. Pan Am’s "helping hand” was extended to Pakistan International Airlines, Turk Hava Yollari (Turkey), Thai Airways, Ariana Afghan Airlines, Iran National Airlines and many others.
In 1930 there was a name change. Pan American Airways became Pan American World Airways. And a new slogan was introduced: "World’s Most Experienced Airline”. No one disputed it. Not then. Not now.
Beginning in 1952 travelers to Europe could fly the world’s most experienced airline at new low fares. Pan Am’s "Rainbow” flights made it possible to fly to Europe for only $270, com-
pared to the old one-way fare of $375. Go abroad on a two-week vacation? More and more people were saying, "Why not?” A Pan Am magazine advertisement suggested "Celebrate your wedding anniversary in Paris”— and a lot of people took them up on it.
The DC-6, then the DC-7 joined the Pan Am fleet, each one bigger, faster, and longer ranged. For the first time there was nonstop service between the U.S. and Europe in both directions. London was now 12 hours from New York. Direct service to Europe from inland cities like Chicago and Detroit was inaugurated, and in 1957 Pan Am started flying the Great Circle Polar Route between California and Europe. Travelers could fly nonstop from San Francisco to London in 18 hours.
During the years following World War II the number of people traveling outside the United States grew steadily, and almost all the increase was in air travel. In the late 1940’s about half a million people went abroad, split equally between sea and air. By the early 50’s the total number of departures was over 900,000—and the number flying had increased to 550,000. In 1957 the number of travelers going abroad by ship stayed about the same, but the number of air travelers was now over a million. The total number of people taking off to other countries had tripled in less than a decade.
The trend was clear. And just as clear was the fact that it would not have happened—at least not nearly as soon—if it had not been for Pan Am’s leadership.
But the world hadn’t seen anything yet.
This sleek Constellation inaugurated Pan Am’s round-the-world service in 1947.
With the DC-7
Pan Am was first airline to fly nonstop across Atlantic in both directions.