ue ... Dakar $ and
84 other cities on six continents . .. the Jet Clippers of Pan Am® rise majestically into the air. During this single 24-hour period they will make 295 takeoffs .. .an average of one every five minutes.
Before the day ends these high-soaring Clippers will look down on all the earth*s oceans and seas and lands ... some of them flying a third of the way around the world before landing. And they will carry some 25,000 people and over one million pounds of freight nearly half a million miles. As they did the day before. As they will do again tomorrow.
October 28,1927:
Exactly 50 years earlier.
A wood and fabric Fokker trimotor airplane loaded with sacks of mail bounces along a dht runway at Key West, Florida. Airborne, it heads south across the water . .. and an hour and ten minutes later lands at Havana, Cuba,
90 miles away.
Government officials, including Cuban President Machado himself, are on hand to greet the plane, for this is a special occasion: the very first scheduled international flight by an American aircraft. It is also the birth of a new airline. As the welcoming dignitaries approach the plane they see, freshly painted on the rear fuselage, three letters: PA*
Pan American Airways. A name that soon will be
recognized around the world.
Within three months the fledgling airline is carrying passengers as well as mail on a daily schedule between Florida and Cuba ... and making plans to extend its routes to the rest of the Caribbean and into Latin America.
It is the beginning of a revolution ... a revolution that will change for all time not only the way people travel abroad, but the way people think about foreign travel.
During the next 50 years Pan Am will lead in the development of ever bigger, faster, longer-ranging aircraft. It will set standards of safety and service for the entire airline industry. It will work
ceaselessly for lower air fares. In times of war Pan Am will be a resource that will immeasurably aid the efforts of our countrys military.
During the next 50 years Pan Am will open hundreds of new routes to every corner of the globe—but more important, it will open countless millions of minds to the idea of traveling to places far from home. What had always been restricted to the privileged few will be made available to everyone . . . and leading the way into this new era will be the people and planes of Pan Am.
This is the story of how it all happened . . .