^Turning 50 is a good time to take stock, to measure achievements against goals. But how do you measure an airline?
There are many ways. One is to look at what the airline has contributed to aviation. Here, even its competitors put Pan Am at the top. During its 50 years Pan Am has pioneered every significant overseas air route. It has been the leader in developing bigger, faster, more reliable aircraft, and better navigational techniques, communications systems, and maintenance procedures. Pan Am has set the standards followed by every airline in the world.
Or look at what the airline has done for the country, and for the peoples of the world. Pan Am has responded to the call to duty in three wars involving the United States, each time making a far greater commitment of personnel and equipment than any other airline. Its support of America’s aerospace industry has generated billions of dollars of orders from foreign airlines following Pan Am’s lead —and created hundreds of thousands of jobs. Pan Am is always one of the first on the scene of a major disaster anywhere in the world when supplies and other airborne help are needed—often without being paid for it. Pan Am’s Airline Services Division has assisted struggling airlines in less developed countries, even though in some instances it was creating competition for Pan Am. Asa veteran of the airline put it, "Pan Am has to do more because the demands on a worldwide airline are greater. Literally everything in the world affects Pan Am.”
Or look at the statistics, which show that Pan Am is far and away America’s leading international airline and a two billion dollar company. It employs 27,000 men and women, operates 107 jet aircraft (including the world’s largest fleet of 747s), and serves an 88,000 mile network connecting 92 cities on six continents. In addition, Pan Am’s Intercontinental Hotels Corporation operates 78 hotels in 37 countries; the Aerospace Services Division provides a wide range of services at several guided missile and rocket ranges; Pan Am’s Business Jets Division is the sole distributor
for the Falcon executive jet aircraft in North America; and the Metropolitan Airports Division operates general aviation airfields in the New York area, including Westchester County Airport and Teterboro Airport in New Jersey.
The most meaningful figures, however, are those that trace the increases in the number of passengers flown and tons of cargo carried— because that’s what the airline business is really all about.
During its first year of operation Pan Am carried 1,184 passengers. In 1934 100,000 people flew Pan Am. Three years later that figure doubled. In October, 1947, Pan Am announced that during its first 20 years it had carried a total of seven million passengers. Today, as Pan Am celebrates its 50th anniversary, more people than that fly Pan Am in a single year! In 1977 Pan Am will transport between eight and nine million travelers and over 225 thousand tons of freight—and that is the true measure of an airline founded on a belief that its "opportunity and obligation is to carry people and cargo in great numbers.”
The principal beneficiary of Pan Am’s progress is, of course, the traveling public. Fifty years ago people needed a lot of money and a lot of time to travel abroad. Now just a little of each will take a traveler a long, long way. And Pan Am is proud that it could help make it happen.
Pan Am, the world’s most experienced airline, moves into its second half century . . . confident that its best years lie ahead.
28