important was the impetus given to the development of new aircraft. The Douglas C-54 transport, built and flown in great numbers during the war—it was the workhorse of the Miami-to-India Cannonball route, for example—was the forerunner of the DC-4. More than twice as big and much faster than the DC-3, the DC-4 was the kind of big land plane, fast and efficient, Pan Am needed to replace the slower, outdated flying boats. And speed and efficiency, Pan Am knew, were what would make possible lower fares and increased air travel.
Within two months after V-J Day the DC-4 became the first commercial land plane to carry passengers across oceans, and people started lining up to make reservations. To meet the demand Pan Am increased its New York to London schedule from twice a week to daily, and for the first time since Pearl Harbor daily round trip flights between California and Hawaii were resumed.
Early in 1946 the sleek, 300-mph Lockheed Constellations, also developed during the war, went into service. The first pressurized aircraft on the transatlantic routes, the "Connies” cruised at 20,000 feet, above most bad weather and turbulence, and made it to Lisbon from New York in just under 10 hours.
1946 was a big year, and Pan Am broke all records for commercial flying. Night and day Clippers took off from New York bound for Bermuda, London, Shannon, Vienna and the Belgian Congo, making over 1,100 Atlantic crossings. On the West Coast the number of flights to Honolulu was increased as flying
The Siam Inter-Continental Hotel in Bangkok, one of 78 Pan Am IHC hotels around the world.
time was decreased by more than five hours, and regular service was resumed to Auckland, New Zealand. In December direct flights to Sydney, Australia were approved. Pan Am continued to be the leading airline throughout Latin America.
Because many of its new destinations could not yet offer the kind of accommodations Americans wanted, Pan Am went into the hotel business, forming InterContinental Hotels. Starting with the small Hotel Grande in Belem, Brazil in 1946, IHC bought or constructed hotels all over the world. Each
hotel reflects the style and traditions of the country it is in, and is built mostly with local materials; at the same time its facilities and wide range of services are keyed to the needs of the demanding American traveler. Pan Am’s IHC hotels have been an important factor in the development of tourism to many heretofore untraveled areas of the world.
Almost every year during the post-war period saw another Pan Am first. In June, 1947, Pan Am inaugurated the first scheduled round-the-world service. A new Constellation, the first to be equipped for night flying, took off