St. Mary Major, Rome
Mon tser rat.
St. Francis, Assisi
LaSalette, France
Notre Dame, Paris
ere are some of the world-renowned shrines
... to which Pilgrimages will be made during 1954. Because speedy Pan American Clippers reduce travel time to Rome and the rest of Europe to a few hours, even people with only a -wo weeks’ vacation will be able to fly to these famous shrines and j Din in the special devotions commemorating flie Marian Year.
Prominent among those making Pilgrimages will be Sodality members convening in Rome during 1954 for their First World Congress. In this connection you may be interested in a letter released on July 2, 1953, in whic'i the Holy Father, Pope Pius XII, wrote:
“Next year, which is the Centenary of the solemn definition of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary by Our Predecessor of happy memory Pius IX, and also the sixtieth anniversary of Our consecration in the Sodality of Our Lady, it is hoped to hold the First Congress of the World Federation in Rome. We vdsh every good blessing on this Congress and its undertakings and labours”.
T	hese famous MARIAJ^ SHRIJ\[ES wil	l attract m	any	[prims in 1954
St. Mary Major in Rome, the Liberian Basilica, the greatest church dedicated to the Mother of God. In its Burghese Chapel is the historic painting venerated as “Salus Populi Romani”. To this great basilica especially, the Holy Father says, “let the suppliant citizens flock, and before that most sacred image let all put forth pious prayers, imploring especially that Rome, which is the principal city of the Catholic world, may also give the lead in Faith, in Piety and in Sanctity”.
Since Pilgrimages by air reduce transatlantic crossings to a matter of hours, those flying to Rome by Pan American Clipper during the Marian Year will be able to visit other popular Italian shrines, too. The Basilica of Loreto, for example, containing the home of the Blessed Virgin . . . and the Tombs of St. Francis in Assisi and St. Anthony in Padua.
Lourdes, France. A million people every year visit the Grotto where our Blessed Mother appeared to Bernadette in 1858. A convenient way to visit Lourdes in 1954 will be via Clipper to Barcelona, which makes it possible to include the monastery of Montserrat, also. Here only 35 miles from Barcelona is the well-known shrine of the Black Virgin and the great boys’ choir of the oldest music school in Europe.
Shrine of Our Lady of LaSalette, southeastern France, where the Blessed Virgin appeared in 1846 to the two peasant children. Many making their Pilgrimages by speedy air travel can visit the famous fountain of LaSalette and the Cathedral of Turin which contains the Holy Shroud — since both shrines are near Nice, one of the many convenient Clipper stops in Europe.
En route to the continent, Catholics who go by Flying Clipper will have time enough to stop at Shannon to see Ireland. And they will be able to visit such well-known shrines as Our Lady of Knock and the Holy Mountain, Croagh Patrick, in Mayo, and Ireland’s most famous shrine, St. Patrick’s Purgatory, on the rocky island in Lough Derg, Donegal.
Our Lady of Fatima, Portugal, the great 20th century Shrine of World Peace, where our Blessed Mother appeared to the three shepherd children in 1917, asking repentance, recitation of the Rosary, monthly Communion and dedication of the world to her Immaculate Heart. Fatima is easily reached from Lisbon, a direct Clipper stop. And while there, Marian Pilgrims will be able to visit Jeronimos Monastery, one of Portugal’s finest ecclesiastical buildings, founded in 1499 and famed for its cloisters and sculptures.
Shrine of the Miraculous Medal in Paris, conveniently reached by Clipper. Here in 1830 Our Lady appeared 3 times to Catherine Laboure and commissioned her to have the Medal of the Immaculate Conception made and to spread devotion to it. While in Paris, of course, there will be an opportunity to visit Notre Dame and the other great cathedrals and to journey to nearby Lisieux for the shrine of St. Therese, The Little Flower.
Fatima, Portugal
Loreto, Italy
St. Anthony, Padua
Jeronimos, Lisbon
Our Lady of Knock, Ireland