is a time to honor
Our Blessed Mother
in a special way
As you know, the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary was declared an Article of Faith in 1854 . . . one hundred years ago. And, to stimulate more widespread devotion to the Mother of God by means of centennial celebrations throughout the world, the Holy Father has proclaimed 1954 as Marian Year, urging the Bishops to encourage the clergy and the laity to sponsor public devotions in honor of Our Lady,/;/.
No doubt like most Catholics throughout the world . . . and particularly here in the United States which enjoys the patronage of our Lady under the titl'e of the Immaculate Conception . . . you will need little prompting to increase your private devotions. In addition, you will probably look forward to joining the public devotions to her, as suggested by the Holy Father. And you can do so in three ways:
—	in your own parish
—	in your own diocese
—	on a pilgrimage to one of the famous Shrines of Our Lady
I his folder has been prepared by Pan I American World Airways, which is happy I to do what it can to further the intentions of the Marian Year. In the past, Pan American has been privileged to act as Official Air Carrier of various Pilgrimages. A few instances you may recall were the 1952 Eucharistic Congress in Barcelona . . . the National Holy Name Society Pilgrimage to Rome during the Holy Year . . . and, more recently, the reunion last October of the North American College in Rome, at which time our passengers included the Cardinal Spellman group.
Regarding the coming World Congress of the Sodalities of Our Lady in Rome this September, you may be interested to learn that the President of the Central Secretariate of the Congregationum Marianarum in Rome wrote to Pan American World Airways last October:
“ Your Company is undoubtedly in the position to make a notable contribution to call attention to the events which will take place in the Holy City during 195b and to facilitate the various travel problems of individuals and groups. Therefore, your initiative in offering your cooperation as the first carrier is welcomed ... It is hoped that a large number of our members will find it possible to attend the Congress and to visit the shrines of Our Lady in Europe.”
jYour pastor or .spiritual director can give yfipk more details regarding Marian Year activities here and abroad, particularly the World Cori^, gress of Sodalities mentioned above. And if you wish more information about Clipper Pilgrimages abroad,, your travel agent or local office of Pan American World Airways will be able to help you.
Clipper, Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
PRINTED IN U. S. A.
DR-254-110