A Private Guide As You Walk or Drive
Here’s a whole new idea in vacation fun from Pan Am.
Cassette tapes—with the voice of an expert guide taking you around some of the great cities and historical sites of the world. Play them at home as you plan your trip. Play them again abroad—on a walking tour of the town or a driving tour of the countryside.
Each Tours on Tape cassette comes with its own detailed map to show you the places you’ll visit. Drop the cassette in your portable tape player and you’re ready to go, when you want, at yourown pace. Your knowledgeable guide will direct you about, point out the sights and fill you in on the colorful history behind them. From time to time, he’ll mention a shop for bargains along the way, suggest a cafe for an afternoon aperitif, or give you an idea for an evening on the town.
Easy Listening-Inexpensive, Too
Tours on Tape are made for usbyCBS/Viacomandwillfitany standard cassette tape player. (We suggest those with fast forward and reverse so you can quickly replay any part of the tape you want.) Each cassette, including map, is only US $2.95 orthe equivalent.
Many of the tapes include dramatic sound and musical effects to further your appreciation of the subject matter. Listening at home, you'll feel as if you're right there. And later, when you are there, you'll find that Tours on Tape convey the atmosphere far better than if you were guided as one of a group. Tours on Tape will be useful when you return, too and sound even better on your home stereo recorder —providing great background effects for slide shows.
Play the World
Let Pan Am Tours on Tape take you around the globe. Tourthe great cities of Europe, the French and English countryside, the Orient, Hawaii, the Caribbean, or the United States. The following listings give only a sample of all the interesting places on the tapes.
London Walking Tour.
Sideone: "TheCity.”... Financial heart of England, Tower of London, All Hallows Church, Guildhall (home of City government for nearly 1,000 years).
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Lloyd’s of London, and Leadenhall Market. And much more. Side two: London's West End, Including Kensington and Chelsea, Buckingham Palace, the Cueen’s Gallery, Royal Mews, Victoria and Albert Museum, Thomas Carlyle House, the boutiques on King's Road, and the antique shops on Kensington Church Street.
The English Countryside.
An on-your-own car tour to the ancient town of Canterbury in southeast England. You’ll drive through the countryside of Sussex and Kent, see Sissing-hurst Castle, the old port city of Rye and, of course, Canterbury Cathedral.
Paris Walking Tour.
Side one: Right Bank: Arc de Triomphe, L'Etoile, Sacré-Coeur, Champs-Elysées, Tuileries Garden, the Louvre, the Opéra and more. Side two: Left Bank and Ile de la Cité: Notre-Dame, Sainte-Chapelle, the Latin Ouarter, Napoleon's Tomb and the Eiffel Tower.
Versailles and Fontainebleau.
Side one is a drive-yourself tour that takes you through the French countryside to Fontainebleau, thefamous French palace with 2,000 rooms, beautiful gardens and 42,000 acres of forest. And side two is a tour of the palace of Versailles.
>,x<>, ^ >
o' 'o’ '<)' '< )' ’(»" '< >'
. . ,	 ..... ,	, .	O	Of »	O	< >	0,0,0.
O O O O ( > O o ( ) ( 1 O O « I f > o <
■	• ■ O <)	(>. '‘	' ■	' •	''	''	''	' ‘	‘ ‘	'*
o o r > o
Rome Walking Tour.
Side one: Ancient Rome: the Colosseum, Roman Forum, Palatine Hill, the Spanish Steps, Trevi Fountain and the famous squares. Side two takes you to the Vatican, St. Peter's and the Vatican Museums, including the Sistine Chapel. Plus Castel Sant’Angelo (Hadrian’s Tomb), the Piazza Navona and the Campo Dei Fiori (flower and vegetable market).
Amsterdam Walking Tour.
Side one is a tour of Dam Square, St. Nicolaas Kerk Schreierstoren, Rembrandthuis Waterlooplein, Rembrandtsplein Munttoren, Floating Flower Market, Begijnhof, Kalverstraat. Side two is another tour of the famous canals, Westerkerk Anne Frank Huis, Heineken’s Brewery, Museumplein Rijksmuseum, Stedelijk Museum, Spiegelgracht Antique Shops, Leidsestraat and Leidseplein.
Brussels Walking Tour.
Your tour starts at the historic Cathedral of Saints Michael and Gudule and continues along the Rue de la Montagne to the Grand' Place, Market Square, Anneesens Tower, Notre Dame de la Chapelle, open-air antique market, Palais de Justice, Museum of Fine Arts, Place Royale, Place de Musee, Park of Brussels, Palace of the Nation, Ravenstein Mansion, Mont des Arts. Plus suggestions for leisure-time and short excursions.
Frankfurt/Heidelberg Walking Tour.
Side one explores Frankfurt: Hauptwache, Eschenheimer Tower, Stock Exchange, Goethehaus, Paul's Church, Roemer, Kaiserdom Cathedral, Saalhof Chapel, Leonard Church, Affentor Place and Kuhhirten Tower. Side two takes you to Heidelberg: University Place, Library, Student’s Prison, Jesuit Church, Holy Ghost Church, Neckar River, House of the Knight, Students’ restaurants and Heidelberg Castle.
Berlin Walking Tour.
Tour highlights include Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, Europa Center, Schoneberg City Hall (Freedom Bell), John F. Kennedy Platz, Checkpoint Charlie, Allied Control Council Building, American Memorial Library, Springer Building, Potsdamer Square, Red City Hall, Brandenburg Gate, Soviet War Memorial, the Reichstag, Victory Column, Hansa Quarter and Charlottenburg Castle. Plus tips on evening entertainment, restaurants and shops.
Hawaii Driving Tour.
Side one is a tour of Honolulu, including Punahou School, Ualakaa State Park, Punchbowl, Lookout Point, Island Cathedrals, State Capitol, lolani Palace and Statue of King Kamehameha. The Oahu Island tour on side two visits the Blowhole, Sea Life Park, Pali Highway Lookout, Byodo-in Temple, Polynesian Cultural Center and pineapple plantations.
Pan Am.
Visit the world at home Then tour it on your own
A Project of Pan Am and CBS/Viacom