Fishing is one excellent reason for going to either or both of these delightful spots on the Pacific Cost of Mexico ... But there are many others, and they all add up to a fun-packed vacation ...
In Mazatlan, you’ll find yourself in a fine resort and port town, definetely growing, but still not too crowded ... So there is the feeling that you can make up your individual schedule without running into conflicts as you might in some of the more crowded places ...
Mazatlan has a half dozen good hotels and several fine restaurants, and the prices are moderate ... Before or after your fishing trip, you’ll probably want to stroll around town or take a ride in one of the buggies that carries you on a laisurely and comfortable tour around this old fishing and shipping port . .. You’ll see the lighthouse out on the neck of land that juts into the bay ... the fascinating market place . .. the fine Playa de las Gaviotas (Sea Gull Beach), with soft sand beach, cool water, bathhouses, beach chairs, and the like ...
Farther on, there is an interesting trip to Villa Union, where a large textile mill is located and may be visited . .. Also the Palmito de la Virgen island, which is a sanctuary for thousands upon thousands of birds of all varieties. You get there by boat. And some 12 miles or so from Mazatlan is a more secluded beach, San Bias, regarded as among the best in Mexico . ..
The angler will find the Mazatlan wafers superb for big game or small fishing. Marlin and sailfish abound, the former in the fall, winter and spring, and the beautiful sails in the summer months. Mackerel, red snapper, corbina, and a variety of small fish are there for the taking any time. You can fish off the shore or take one of the many boats available for rental, with or without tackle. In the countryside around Mazatlan, there is always good hunting, from deer to more exciting game such as mountain lions and jaguars. ..
Like Mazatlan, the beautiful port of Puerto Vallarta farther down the coast, and just an hour by Mex/cana plane from Guadalajara, too, offers a variety of recreation on the sea-
47