MILWAUKEE, WIS.
Journal
30 Years of Air Travel
President Franklin Roosevelt thrilled to “the wonder of it all,” and President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines forecast the end of “the barrier of time and space.” The event they hailed, just 30 years ago, was the charter flight of the China Clipper across the Pacific. From San Francisco bay to Manila bay took six days, or 59 hours 48 minutes flying time, with stops at Hawaii, Midway, Wake and Guam.
Today Pan American’s Boeing 707 land planes make the San Francisco-Manila flight three times a week in 16 hours 5 minutes.
The Martin Clipper had a wing-spread of 130 feet, a hull 90 feet 7 inches long and weighed 52,252 pounds. It flew at 130 miles an hour, had a range of 2,500 miles, needed a crew of 7 or 8 and, when passengers were added in 1936 to what had been mail only flights, carried up to 32.
The Boeing 707 has a wingspread of 145 feet 8^ inches, a fuselage 152 feet 11 inches long and weighs 325,000 pounds. It flies at 575 miles an hour, has a range of 6,000 miles, carries a crew of 4 to 6 and can accommodate 130 passengers.
The Clipper cost $417,201; the 707 cost $6,757,000. Clipper passengers paid $799 one way. Today’s traveler pays $490 one way.
What does this look backward suggest for 30 years ahead? Will time and space be further shrunk and travel cheapened? Unquestionably. Planes are on the drawing boards that will fly three times
faster than today’s jets, and rocket delivery of passengers and cargo is being talked about. By 1995, we might be traveling in space as we now travel in the atmosphere.

THE SUN
Published Every Weekday By
THE A. S. ABELLCOMPANY
William F. Schmick. Jr., President
Only 30 Years Ago
We are accustomed now to think about astronauts shooting into space, and zooming around the world every 90 minutes, as part of our way of life. Non-astronauts among us climb into a jet airplane for a trip across the Atlantic, or the Pacific, as an everyday procedure. Yet it was only 30 years ago this week — three decades of revolutionary change in travel — that a Pan-American Airways flying boat, a Martin plane called the China Clipper, was flying across the Pacific to begin air mail service.
The dispatches said the majestic Clipper, the “silver-winged sky queen,” was speeding westward. We would call it less than majestic now, in comparison with the aircraft that span our oceans today at a rate only slightly less than that of the spinning globe, and we might be inclined to substitute the word “trundling” for speeding in the case of the Clipper. As it left California its flying time to Honolulu was eighteen hours. Manila, its final destination, was still a long way on; the flying time from San Francisco to Manila was 59 hours 48 minutes, or two and a half days. President Roosevelt sent a message saying that “even at this distance I thrill at the wonder of it.” Postmaster General Farley said it was the beginning of “the greatest and most significant achievement in the marvelous and fascinating development of air transportation.”
To a large extent, that was the start of commercial transoceanic air travel. The fact that it now is part of our daily lives, only 30 years later, is the kind of tribute the pioneers of that day would have relished.
THE BALTIMORE SUN November 17, 1665
EDITORIAL PAGE
The Richmond News Leader Friday, December 24, 1965
Great Silver Bird:
Thirty years ago this week, a special chapter was written in the history of aviation—at least, it was a special chapter to anvone who was a child at the time. The fantastic world of flight was just then corning into full realization. The first scheduled passenger air service across a major ocean was beginning: Rising from the waters of San Francisco Bay was a great silver bird of an aircraft, the Pan American World Airways Martin M-130 seaplane. Forever after, it would be known as the “China Clipper.”
By today’s aviation standards, the Clipper tends to pale; it was indeed a tame bird, flying, as it did, at a mere 130 miles per hour. With today’s huge jets shuttling back and forth across continents in hours, the fascination of the China Clipper for a youngster of the Thirties is difficult to explain. After all, the Clipper took six days to fly from San Francisco to Manila, a distance of 8,000 miles. The longest non-stop flight today—New York to Tel Aviv—is knocked off in about 11 hours.
But the China Clipper had some elements few aircraft today could offer. It had a personality of its own; it had a certain style. Few of today’s big jets with their physical sameness and efficiency have it. For its time, the Clipper was an elegant operation, a kind of combination airplane, cruise ship, hotel, and restaurant. It was the great tradition of Pullman service carried to the airborne ultimate, a wonderful bird at home in the air or on the water. Its dimensions were spacious. It offered such civilized amenities of leisure travel as full-sized berths, lounges, and dining saloons.
Above all, the Clipper had romantic appeal. Watching a Clipper take off or land in a newsreel set the heart pounding. It was impossible to believe that a Clipper flight was not always filled with excitement and intrigue. Perhaps that was why so many Hollywood films were set on board the Clipper flights. In any event, to those who were young in the Thirties, boarding jet flight 438 will somehow never match the appeal once felt by the call of the China Clipper.



