
±
THIRTY YEARS AGO
CHINA
CLIPPER
IT LAUNCHED AN ERA
>0 ut on the water the big silver flying boat nosed into a mi J gusty wind whipping across San Francisco Bay and m(/ started its take-off run.
On shore over 100,000 spectators cheered as the China Clipper—heavy with fuel and a ton of mail—cleared the choppy spray and climbed slowly to the west, its first stop 21 hours and nearly 2500 transpacific miles away.
Radios throughout tire world had carried every sound and word of the preflight ceremonies. There had been band music and a brief speech by Postmaster General James A. Farley, who also read a special message from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Additional speeches had been made by U.S. Sen. William Gibbs McAdoo, California Gov. Frank F. Merriam and others. Greetings were received from Philippine President Manuel Quezon and Hawaii Gov. Joseph B. Poindexter.
It was an auspicious day: Pan American Airways was beginning scheduled flights from San Francisco to Manila via Honolulu, Midway and Wake islands and Guam, thus linking for the first time by air the U.S. and the Orient. The date was November 22, 1935, and the China. Clipper s departure presaged one of the most important flights in aviation history.
AIR AGE
When the big Martin M-130 flying boat touched down in Manila Harbor six and one half days later, it marked the first time a major ocean had been spanned by commercial aviation. The flight was widely hailed as being the epitome of the Air Age. It ushered in new concepts of air travel and opened a new'
Start of an era: China Clipper soars past half finished Golden Gate Bridge in epic 1935 flight to the Orient.
area of the world to modern commerce and industry. It even inspired a rash of Hollywood movies.
But to retired Pan American Capt. Victor A. Wright, an engineering officer aboard the inaugural flight, the achievement was more than historically significant. He remembers that within moments after its beginning it was almost a colossal disaster.
“Although we didn’t plan it that way, our departure from Alameda that first day w'as spectacular,” Captain Wright recalls. “Ahead of us as we left the water were the looping cables of the San Francisco-Oakland bridge, being built at the time. Behind us was a convoy of escorting planes
“We were supposed to fly over the bridge, but Musick [Capt. Edwin C. Musick, the plane commander] quickly realized we didn’t have enough speed to clear the cables. So at the last moment he nosed the China Clipper down and flew under the bridge, threading his way through the dangling construction wires. We held our breath until we were in the clear. The convoy must have been as surprised as we were, but they darted down and followed us right on through. It could have been one of the biggest messes in aviation history.”
But it wasn’t. Nothing went wrong then or at any other point during the entire flight. The aircraft itself, the members of the crew, the navigation and communications systems—all worked perfectly. The China Clipper covered a distance of 8210 overwater miles and reached Manila in a total flying time of 59 hours and 48 minutes. Today the trip by jet takes 18 hours and is a well-worn routine.
Thirty years ago, to Captain Wright and his fellow crewmen, 18 hours was a small segment of a far-from-routine adventure.
Today, Capt. Victor Wright, an engineering officer aboard flying boat China Clipper, keeps its bow flag as souvenir of the flight.