mm
X
OAKLAND CALIFORNIA TRIBUNE, Nov. 21, 1965
China Clipper Brings Back Old Memories
By BILL EATON
ALAMEDA — If you stand on the shore here, and ponder things, you can see China.
What used to be a seaplane ramp is filled and concreted now for Navy jet runways, but you can stand out on the edge and see China.
You can if you think big. At that you won’t need to think so big as did Ed Musick.
He saw China from here when few had such vision.
Thirty years ago tomorrow Ed Musick stood here apd listened to the speeches, and loaded the mail, and pushed off from shore to run thundering across the Bay.
WHALE-LIKE HULL
A mile out on the water he eased the whale-like hull of the China Clipper into the air, ducked beneath the dangling cables of a Bay Bridge then still a-building, and climbed out to the west and the sea.
Nov. 22, 1935, was the beginning of the first scheduled commercial flight of the' transpacific China Clipper, and it is an event that Pan American World Airways likes to describe as “shrinking the world.”
Thirty years ago, feeling intrepid, you could come down here along Main Street and the Estuary on the red coaches of the Southern Pacific’s “Alameda Loop” commuter, riding clear out to land’s end to board
the China Clipper for Honolulu and Midway and Wake and Guam and Manila.
There was no Naval Air Station here then, and no Naval Supply Depot across the Estuary. There was a ferry slip, sheltered by a breakwater made from old four-stacker Navy destroyers sunk here for that purpose.
TINY LAGOON
At the south side was a tiny lagoon, with a ramp sloping to the Bay, and at the foot of the ramp was the China Clipper, a great white brute of 25 tons and a hull 90 feet long, and wings that spanned 130 feet.
If you stand here now, at just about the center of the Navy’s runways, and if you think on it hard enough, you can hear them addressing the crowds . . .
“By this act we are making transportation history,” said California Gov. Frank F. Mer-riam.
“With hearts and minds thrilled by the meaning of this flight,” said Philippines President Manuel L. Quezon, “the people of the Orient await the coming of the Clipper ships.”
“How swiftly moves the history of the world today!” said Hawaii Gov. Joseph P. Poindexter.
“Each year brings new triumphs in American aviation,” said U.S. Postmaster General James A. Farley.
“Practical imagination and daring are the supreme human attributes,” said California Sen. William Gibbs McAdoo.
‘THRILLING EXAMPLE’
“A thrilling example of American enterprise,” said Joseph R. Knowland, president of the California State Chamber of Commerce.
Then Juan T. Trippe, president of Pan American Airways, said to Ed Musick, “Cast off and depart for Manila . . . ”
Musick went out and did in 60 hours what a Pan Am jetliner can do today in 18.
All but one of the seven crewmen aboard the first China Clipper are gone, and the story of that one, Capt. Victor A. Wright, is told in the Parade section of today’s Tribune.
They were pioneers Fred Noonan, Musick’s navigator, disappeared with Amelia Earhart over the Pacific in 1937.
Ed Musick vanished in a burst of flame off Pago Pago, flying the Samoan Clipper to New Zea land in January, 1938.
When searchers gave up hope of finding Musick in 1938, an editorial writer at The Tribune had this to say:
“Brave men on wings have left the scene.
“The courses of the air remain open and are the safer for their services.”