MECHANIC RECALLS HISTORIC CHINA CLIPPER ARRIVAL
PHOTOS at left show: Francisco as he locks today and when he served as mechanic helper 30 years ago. Below, Clipper clears then uncompleted San Francisco-Oakland Bridge on its first leg of pioneer trans-Pacific flight.
A YOUNG Filipino who studied to be a forest ranger and wound up as maintenance supervisor for Pan American Jet Clippers in Manila 30 years later is today the airline company’s oldest Philippine official.
Today, looking backwards, he recalls impulsively that in those days “I wore trunks under my overalls.”
Three months before the historic ‘'China Clipper” flight into Manila Bay across the forbidding Pacific Ocean on Ñov. 22, 1935—Young Rafael Francisco was recruited by the pioneering American airline company from an aviation school on San Marcelino Street.
The 24-year-old aviation student, who originally came from Bago, Occ. Negros, was finishing his studies at the America Far Eastern School of Aeronautics (AFESA) when he was tapped for the job which was totally different from what his mother had wanted him to be.
Earlier, he had enrolled at the U.P. College of Forestry, in Los Baños, but Francisco knew he was not cut out to be a forest ranger. Against the wishes of his mother, he switched to aviation. His family cut off his pension but he remained dauntless.
Pan Am was then recruiting workers for the project landing of the giant, sea-going China Clipper. Bill Pratt, director of AFESA and an old U.S. Airforce hand, selected a group of young, bright students and sent them to report to Phil Berst who was Pan Am Manager in Manila at the time. Francisco was the only one selected.
Francisco’s first job with the company was as a mechanic helper. The China Clipper’s historic November flight was a couple of weeks away, by this time, and Francisco’s theoretical training was ready for the big test.
Then the great day came.
“I was right there on the landing barge tied to the Legaspi Landing on the Luneta.
“People, thousands of them, lined all available space on the seawall fronting the Luneta and on the rooftops of Manila Hotel and the Army and Navy Club.
“There was a big billboard near the landing showing the map of the Pacific basin — San Francisco, California on one end and Manila on the other. The China Clipper’s progress on its flight was being traced across the billboard, and that afternoon of November 29, the miniature facsimile of the Clipper was nearing its destination in Manila.
“There was a huge arch over the landing, and a band was playing somewhere in the vicinity. I recall that I saw Mayor Juan Posadas in the reception committee wearing his bastipol. There was also Vice President Sergio Osmena Sr.
“Suddenly, shortly after 3 in the afternoon, the huge plane which appeared like a speck in the horizon, loomed to the west. It started its descent and circled once or twice over the city.
“The sighting originally had triggered an incipient excitement among the Luneta crowd and as the plane finally splashed on the waters of Manila Bay, there rose a collective cheer among