THE WESTBOUND LOG
Lv.	San Francisco .... 3:46 P.M. Friday,		Nov. 22
Arr.	Honolulu		 10:19 A.M. Saturday, (20 hours 33 minutes)	Nov. 23
Lv.	Honolulu		Nov.* 24
Arr.	Midway .	(9 hours 24 minutes)	Nov. 24
Lv.	Midway 	 6:12 A.M. Monday, Time Advanced One Day Crossing International Dateline Westbound		Nov. 25
Arr.	Wake . .		 1:38 P.M. Tuesday, (7 hours 25 minutes)	Nov. 26
Lv.	Wake . . .		Nov. 27
Arr.	Guam ...		Nov. 27
(11 hours 4 minutes)
Remained One Day According Original Schedule, to Arrive Manila Nov. 29
Lv.	Guam ..............6.12 A.M. Friday,	Nov. 29
Arr.	Manila.............3:32 P.M. Friday,	Nov. 29
(11 hours 20 minutes)
Local Times Throughout Flying Time: 59 hours 48 minutes Elapsed Time: 6 days 7 hours 46 minutes
volcanic landmarks moved into range. Diamond Head loomed 30 miles ahead as all hands manned the posts while we slowly glided down from the heights to the patrolled channel on Pearl Harbor. Landing: 10:19 A.M.
SUNDAY, NOV. 24
Like a waterfront scene in the old days of sailing vessels, when the clipper ships had to be loaded in a mad rush to sail with the tide, the marine runway of Pan American Airways’ Ocean Air Base No. 1 at Pearl Harbor was a busy scene this morning.
Following in rapid order, the trucks carried into the holds 21 crates of fresh vegetables of all descriptions for our island air bases to the west; nine crates of oranges and lemons; 12 crates of turkeys for the first Thanksgiving dinners in the history of those colonies on Midway and Wake; and cartons of cranberries, sweet potatoes and mince meat.
Other crates contained every conceivable item—paint brushes, typewriter ribbons, oil-lamp wicks, among the 800 pounds of cargo labeled “Guam.” Spare sewing machine needles, paper plates, napkins, baseballs and tennis racquets among Wake’s 2,000 pounds. Lantern bulbs, refrigeration machinery parts, a complete barber’s outfit and 900 pounds more for Midway.
The crew went aboard as daylight, held behind Pali and other great peaks, finally spilled over the green mountainsides. At 6:35 A.M., local time, we cast off from the float.
In the channel, a breeze of only four knots slightly ruffled the water, as daylight spread over the still sleeping city. Captain Sullivan pointed the China Clipper’s nose into the north wind. The roaring of the engines drowned the cheers of the crowd ashore, and a few minutes later we were off for Midway Island, 1,380 miles northwest.
The first hour after the takeoff is always the busiest. This morning, that hour took us beyond the last of the Sandwich Islands, passing above long shadows cast by the rising sun behind massive Kauai Peak. From the lighthouse at the northwest point of Niihau Island, across Ku-mukahi Channel, the navigation officer set our course direct for Midway.
This was Sunday aboard the China Clipper as well as ashore. Some of our passengers were reading the Sunday Honolulu papers, and others were playing bridge.
As we left Niihau Island behind us, our three radio stations at Honolulu, Midway and Wake, and our guarding communications stations at Alameda and Los Angeles, on the mainland, started sending signals.
This stretch of 1,200 miles to Midway, which presents few serious navigation problems, since we follow a long chain of islands and reefs, is like a great classroom to us.
Cruising at 2,000 feet, we all had an opportunity to view this beautiful seascape, in which many-colored volcanic islands rose sharply out of the sea while coral atolls lay so flat that they were visible only when we were directly over them. Despite the clear visibility, we were almost in Midway before we sighted the two islands breaking sharply above the sea.
The island’s appearance has changed greatly since the first flight was made by the Pan American Clipper. The area has been largely landscaped, the buildings are brightly painted and everything is neat and orderly. Flags were flying, and tiny figures in white uniforms were standing at their posts on the landing float.
In salute, we circled the base at 500 feet, then settled
in for a landing and touched-the water at 2:01 P.M., Midway time. This one minute off schedule must have been due to that extra circle, but the noisy welcome from the Pan American and cable company colonists who crowded the little float more than justified it.
There were no ceremonies on our landing, since the entire population, aside from the handful of cable company men who man the relay station, consists of our own crew.
Airport Manager Karl Lueder advised us that departure was scheduled at daybreak for our hop to Wake Island, whence we will speed the air mail on to Guam and the Philippines, now but 4,400 miles further westward.
MONDAY, NOV. 25
Again with the first daylight, the China Clipper is on her way westward. Today’s 1,200-mile jump is the shortest but most difficult span in the entire aerial bridge, and calls for one of the most exacting feats of navigation on record—striking, “on the nose,” a tiny point smaller than a pinhead on the vast map of the Pacific Ocean.
It is one thing to navigate a surface vessel, moving a mile every two minutes with a wealth of navigational aids at the command of the mariner.
It is quite another to guide an airliner racing a mile every 24 seconds, enshrouded by clouds or above them, with endless horizons of open sea below and with the goal, even from high altitude, visible scarcely 20 miles.
With nine passengers aboard and nearly three tons of cargo, including 1,653 pounds of air mail plus six tons of fuel, the China Clipper quickly took off from the lagoon at Midway 12 minutes after daylight.
One of our only two check marks—the International Date Line—-was crossed 203 miles out and the China Clipper flew into tomorrow from today. The only other check was a Matson liner charted on our map another 150 miles ahead. We mutually congratulated ourselves when First Officer Sullivan called out “steamer ahoy” and all pressed against the portholes to peer 30 miles dead ahead.
It took only 14 minutes to overhaul the S.S. President Lincoln, 11 days out of San Francisco and bound for Yokohama. We exchanged radio greetings and dipped our wings In salute, getting an acknowledgment of three scarfs of white steam, although we did not hear the whistles.
At the halfway mark, 621 miles out, it was meal time for all aboard, including 25 canaries, each complete with a pound of birdseed. They are forcibly migrating to enliven the deadly silence of isolated Wake Island.
For three hours more, we matched wits with the clouds and winds, seeking the best level and ending at 2,400 feet, flying by instruments through moderately heavy clouds.
We covered the final 400 miles in 2 hours 20 minutes. Then Wake Island flashed by radio that we had been sighted fully two minutes before we aboard could distinguish the small dark spot that is Pan American Airways’ midocean air base on this skyway to the Orient.
We covered the 1,252 route miles at an average speed of 148.7 miles an hour, landing five minutes ahead of schedule, at 1:38 P.M. Tuesday, local time, with 5,242 miles of the Pacific behind us and only two more legs remaining of this astounding 8,000-mile ocean airway.
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 27
Five thousand miles from