the mainland of America and 1.000 miles from the nearest neighbor, the United States has a flourishing city, seen by fewer than a score of people. This unique way-station on the trans-Pacific aerial trade route to the Orient is invisible until nearly atop the islet, and then suddenly bristles a forest of orange and black radio masts, red roofs, white walls of a dozen buildings, walkways, gardens, windmills, a watch-tower, and The Stars and Stripes floating atop a tall mast—a thrilling sight.
All-night weather watches completed the final details on our flying map before 6, and we boarded the Clipper, jumping the sun’s appearance above the horizon by 60 seconds and our keel breaking the water of the Wake lagoon at 6:01 A.M., local time.
Below, a gray light skimmed across the glassy surface of a dead-calm sea. Ahead on all sides was unbroken water. Aboard, the dull thunder of the engines beyond the cockpit.
The weatherman promised better winds aloft at 500 miles out. We verified our course by speaking with the U.S.S. Chester, eastbound out of Manila.
It was warm and pleasant 1,200 feet above the calm sea, and all windows were wide open. The first three hours we made 470 miles, averaging 156 miles an hour on 60 per cent of horsepower. We overtook the U.S.S. Chester and exchanged greetings. Three hours ago, they were 600 miles from us.
Climbing through a 3,000-foot layer of clouds by instrument, we burst out on top in an empty world of dazzling sunshine, the cloud moisture on our wings flashing every color of the spectrum and the propellers describing great, glistening arcs as we bore ahead in a world all to ourselves—except for nine radio stations.
We were in the realm of spanking tradewinds of the Eastern Hemisphere, and they greatly varied our altitudes. We were flying a good course, but the altitude chart would resemble an erratic broker’s graph, with a succession of peaks and valleys. The visibility was good below, the winds less.
We remained underneath long enough for Navigation Officer Noonan to get periodic sights of the wind direction, and at the same time computate ground speed.
Then up through a solid mile of gray mass into unlimited visibility and blinding sunshine, 8,000 feet. We made 780 miles in 4 hours 50 minutes, cruising over the tops of the clouds, 7,000 feet of ragged wisps flashing past the cockpit windows. In the last hour, we made 170 miles with a 30-mile tail wind, reducing the engines to half their horsepower and letting the wind make up the difference.
At 3:05 P.M. (Guam time),, we brought the Clipper to a landing on Apra Harbor.
FRIDAY, NOV. 29
The China Clipper climbed quickly out of Apra Harbor at Guam today, and raced westward across the Pacific toward the Philippines. Our goal, the end of 8,000 miles of ocean flying from San Francisco, was only 1,608 miles away, closer now by 150 miles every hour.
The weather was beautiful and the visibility unlimited. We made 150 miles an hour, with our great 14-cylinder engines using only half of their 800 horsepower. That is a remarkable performance, considering that we represented a load of nearly 20 tons, with enough fuel to carry us clear to China.
In five and one-half hours, we had already passed the halfway mark.
Then, reared sharply against the horizon from a distance of 150 miles, through the incredibly clear atmosphere from our altitude of 11,000 feet, Mount Pandan and Cat-anduanes Island were sighted. Another 30 minutes would bring us in to Manila.
If the harbor channel is clear, we will land in Manila Bay after a total of 60 flying hours from San Francisco. At no time during those 60 hours were our four Pratt & Whitney ‘Wasp” engines called upon to deliver more than 60 per cent of their available 800 horsepower, except for takeoffs. Our air speed was maintained close to the minimum at all stages. Our average speed was 143.3 miles per hour.
We came to a landing in Manila Bay at 3:32 P.M. (Manila time)—on schedule.
MONDAY, DEC. 2
Leaving Manila at 2:53 A.M. (Manila time) and flying within 300 feet of the surface of the water, the China Clipper seemed to pick up resonance as the roar of the engines, reflected from the water, enveloped the ship in a
steady, rich hum. Lacy white-caps on the indigo water were whipped up by a wind of 21 knots beating steadily on our port bow. This reduced our minimum cruising speed from 145 to 120 miles per hour.
Flying eastward, the days are visibly shorter. We met dawn 200 miles off the Philippines, and, as we flew on, the sun moved entirely around us, coming in from behind as though we had been suspended midway between the ceiling of clouds above and sea beneath. Two hundred miles off Guam, the light began to fade.
We arrived 13 hours 15 minutes after leaving Manila (6:41 P.M. Guam time.)
TUESDAY, DEC. 3
We left the waters of Apra Harbor at 8:11 P.M., bound for Wake Island, which we were scheduled to reach in 13% hours.
The China Clipper got her first taste of a Pacific typhoon while protected in her berth at the air base in Apra Harbor, Guam, after her arrival from Manila.
The Clipper easily rode the storm, which lashed the harbor outside, but the mechanics swarmed over the airliner under brilliant floodlights augmented by hand flashlights, inspecting every rivet, strut and section of the great hull, wings and engine. We boarded at 6:30 twilight.
We got out of the harbor quickly, dipping once in farewell to the crowd.
The effects of the typhoon, which we easily flew away from, were immediately apparent. The clouds were heavy—a black gray, even when the rising sun struck them in a flood of golden light. We had a headwind of 35 miles an hour on the quar-
tering bow, making it moderately rough in the clouds, but we soon settled to 600 feet and cruised smoothly. At 200 miles out in two hours, we rode into our first line squalls. The wind shifted to north of east, directly over the bow. At our speed, rains lasted but a few minutes, creating a din on our metal hull and wings and pouring torrents down window portholes. We flew by instruments.
We soon were making about 105 miles, ground speed, and everything was smoothly routine aboard.
It was now noon on board, and luncheon was being served in the lounge. We were 485 miles out and making a good course.
We were having an unusual opportunity, flying in midocean, to see the effects a typhoon exerts on weather in a large area of the globe. For the past two hours, we had been ploughing through intermittent walls of solid rain squalls driven northward by the cyclone center 100 miles to the south. The squally winds momentarily disturbed the usual even balance of the great airliner. We cruised ahead, flying by instrument.
At 8:57 P.M. (Wake time) we had landed once more at Wake, completing the second leg of our return journey on schedule.
TUESDAY, DEC. 8
After the strenuous 14-hour flight from Guam to Wake yesterday, the China Clipper had comparatively smooth and easy sailing today, winging toward her mid-ocean air base at Midway Islands.
Today, the world was filled with brilliant sunshine, a smooth sea and only light clouds in the sky. Visibility
FIRST CLIPPER AND TODAY'S JETS		
Specifications and		Performance
MARTIN	M-T30	BOEING 707/321B
(China Clipper)		(Super-Intercontinental)
Wing Span			
Length 			
Max. Weight			
Max. Passengers...	..32 			135
Crew 		..7			10
Range 		..2,400 miles		
Speed 		.. 130 m.p.h		
Power 		. Four 800-horsepower Four 18,000 - pound -	
	14-cylinder Pratt & thrust Pratt & Whitney	
	Whitney engines	
Cost 		..$417,201 			$6,757,000
Flying Time		.. 60 hours		
Fare (round trip) . .	$1,438 			$882