was so unlimited that we could peer across the entire sea. A steady headwind pounding our quarter bow at the rate of 25 miles an hour was the one disturbing element, slowing our ground speed to a leisurely 110 miles an hour.
The passengers, with the entire airliner to themselves, were sleeping, playing cards or reading.
You can get some idea of the immensity of this ocean over which we were flying when you realize that we saw only two steamers, and talked over the radio with only five others during the entire 12,000 miles we had covered so far.
Halfway between Wake and the Midway Islands, at 5 o’clock, the radio compass at Midway took up our primary guard. We brought the China Clipper to rest on the waters of the lagoon at Midway at 4:49 P.M. (Midway time) Tuesday, having gained a day in passing the International Date Line.
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 4
Into the first rays of daylight, the China Clipper took off from Midway Island for Honolulu en route to San Francisco.
The ground staff we leave behind seems to travel with us. When we are 1,000 miles from them, the airport manager will advise us that the chief mechanic wants to know the oil temperature of No. 3 engine, which is inclined to run slightly hot.
Every 30 minutes, the weather came aboard, advising what conditions lay ahead. Every 60 minutes, the navigation officer on watch took sun sights, verifying our position, computed by dead reckoning and by radio bearings. Every 120 minutes, we dropped down near the surface to make a drift sight and compute the exact wind direction and intensity.
Only when we were near the surface did we get any impression of speed. Then the heavy blue ocean slipped swiftly underneath. Today, this impression was heightened because we were passing islands and reefs, Hawaii’s coral chain reaching 40 miles beyond Midway.
The 18 passengers we had
Pan American World Airway»
TABLE FOR TWO—Was it a plane, a ship or a restaurant?
aboard were almost lost in the cabins capable of accommodating 46. A four-course luncheon was served from the buffet. It was served on long tables in the lounge room.
The clouds were dropping as we approached, and we dropped down with them, immediately sighting Niihau Island and the mountains on the island of Kauai.
A blanket of clouds obscured Oahu Island. From the north, we circled in a wide arc to approach Honolulu from the west. We came in for a landing just 9 hours 45 minutes out of Midway.
Our average speed for the day had been 141 miles an hour. We arrived at Honolulu in 46 hours 19 minutes flying time out of Manila.
FRIDAY, DEC. 6
Coming back from the other
side of the world today, we were impressed by the tremendous distance we had covered. Approaching our terminal at San Francisco, we found it the only port “closed” on the entire trip. This necessitated a blind approach.
We landed 17 hours 1 minute out of Honolulu; 62 hours 55 minutes flying time out of Manila, and 122 hours 42 minutes flying time, San Francis-co-Manila-San Francisco.
The first crossing of the Pacific Ocean was completed in exact accordance with the rigid engineering details, and well under the original schedule of 130 hours. The outbound flight was completed within three minutes of the schedule.
The inbound flight was 7 hours 5 minutes under the schedule, due to the unusual shift of the winds. This aided
us all through the last night, as we cruised at 10,000 feet, a mile above the clouds the entire distance until we approached the California coast.
Even to us, it seemed incredible that we were across the entire Pacific and back again within two weeks of our departure from this same port. The first air mail from the Philippines and Guam would be delivered in New York and Washington within a week of its departure from Manila. The Honolulu mail would reach its destination 24 hours after leaving the islands’ post office.
The cargo of flowers that we had brought was already en route east by air express, Railway Express Agency special, and would be east the next morning.
