ments for the ground staffs on the islands. We could do that because the flight to Midway was only about half the distance of the San Francisco to Honolulu hop, so we carried less gas. And the navigation on this leg was simple. It was a daylight flight and we followed a curving chain of reefs and islands, covering the 1,380 miles in 8V2 hours.
During the survey flights we had enjoyed our layover time at Midway — fishing, swimming and teaching the gooney birds to fly by holding them over our heads and racing down the beach. On this trip, with a new type of plane, we were kept busy checking over the Clipper and taking the island maintenance crews on conducted tours of the ship. All this had to be done with the Clipper floating out in the lagoon.
On the way to Wake Island the next day we passed two “signposts” on an otherwise lonely and vacant ocean. The first was the International Dateline, which added a day to our schedule. This produced an interesting situation toward the end of our trip. A second passage occurred when we overflew the Matson liner, the President Lincoln, which was on its way to Japan. This gave us a welcome chance to check our navigation, for which we used dead reckoning, shots of the sun and the island-based radio direction finders which kept a constant watch over the
flight. We were on course — as we had to be for this leg, for Wake Island was just a pinpoint surrounded by the vast Pacific. Actually, our flight went so well that we landed on the lagoon at Wake five minutes ahead of schedule.
Opened Clipper’s Windows
Our flight to Guam the next day was a somewhat longer duplicate of the Midway-Wake Island hop. We tried various altitudes (the Clipper performed best at about 8,000 feet) to make the most of the trade winds which were now pushing us along. As an indication of how flying has changed — at 1,200 feet we found it so warm and comfortable that we opened all the windows.
We had a little trick for getting additional radio bearings as we approached Guam. There was a Japanese radio station on Rota, an island about 50 miles north of Guam, and when we were about an hour out of Apra Harbor we’d send out a CQ or “Do you hear me?” signal on the Japanese frequency. Then, while he was answering our call, we’d get a bearing on his station and combine that with a bearing from our own station on Guam to get a good fix on our position. We couldn’t use that one too often, though, because in 1935 the Japanese weren’t interested in helping anyone establish an airline across the Pacific.
Everybody in Guam seemed to have turned out to give us a welcome. This was just as well, because after we’d landed we discovered that someone in Manila who had scheduled the arrival celebra»-tion had apparently been confused by the time changes caused by the International Dateline and had provided us with an extra day of flying time. This meant that if we continued our flight the next morning we would arrive in Manila a day before they were ready to greet us. So we laid over a day on Guam and tried to make ourselves as i n conspicuous as possible. That wasn’t too easy with people all around the world watching the news of the flight and wondering where you are. We solved that by simply closing down the radio for everything but essential communications.
The Guam to Manila leg of the flight introduced a new note, for this was the first time anyone had flown across that particular stretch of ocean. But we were so sure of ourselves by this time — of
the China Clipper and our flight procedures and the communications network that guarded us along the way — that we just took it in stride. There was a stir aboard when we raised the volcanic cone of Mount Mayan from 11,000 feet and 150 miles out, but that was chiefly because that meant it was time to clean up and get back into uniform for the welcoming celebration at Manila.
They gave us a great reception at Manila. I particularly enjoyed the official banquet and the automobile tour around the city, because I could take them both sitting down. They gave us each several sheets of first-flight stamps commemorating the first mail flight across the Pacific and I managed to get hold of the flag we flew at the China Clipper’s bow as we taxied in to our mooring. I still have both the stamps and the flags as souvenirs of the first commercial flight across the Pacific — and the memory of a pair of aching feet.