THIRTY years ago tomorrow, the first scheduled passenger air service across a major ocean was born. A Pan American World Airways flying boat—the Martin M-130, the original China Clipper—carried a handful of passengers, mail and assorted cargo from San Francisco to Manila in 59 hours 48 minutes, or 12 minutes ahead of schedule. The 8,200-mile trip took six days, with stops at Honolulu, Midway, Walke Island and Guam en route to the Philippines.
Today,, the longest scheduled nonstop jet flight, 5,800 miles from New York to Tel Aviv, takes 10 hours 50 minutes.
Here are excerpts from the composite report of the inaugural round-trip flight, as logged by the crew of that trail-blazing China Clipper in 1935:
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22
Before we were beyond sight of San Francisco Bay’s holiday dress in honor of our departure, a great mass of clouds, the close companions of our now veteran Pacific airmen, covered the entire horizon. The constantly arriving weather reports from our ocean stations turned us southward, close to the rim of the most southerly surveyed course.
Day passes into' night with unmatched swiftness over the ocean, and, before a final flying check was made by all officers, we were swallowed by darkness. No stars were visible through the ceiling of clouds above. A solid floor of clouds 2,000 feet below closed out the sea.
The China Clipper holds in bulging, tight-filled mail sacks 110,000 letters. Some of the sacks are for delivery in the morning at Honolulu, some for delivery on the fourth day out at Guam, and others for Manila on the sixth day.
In eight hours, we are 1,200 miles out over the Pacific and drilling through the black void of the night; we are in close contact with all points of the compass after eight hours of steady flying through layers of clouds above and below.
MIDNIGHT
We have just changed our fourth watch. Captain Sullivan, Engineering Officer Wright and Second Officer King are having dinner and then a 45-minute nap in the berths aft. Below, the radio dials glow dully.
Navigation Officer Noonan is bent over the chart table like a form from another world. He is encased in a fur flying suit and leather helmet. He has returned from the open aft hatch after taking a celestial sight through a vast hole in the cloud ceiling, affording the first view of the heavens in the last three hours.
Across this section of the Pacific, even with head- or cross-winds, flying is remarkably smooth — a happy circumstance, since, on this section of the 2,400 miles, the greatest amount of engineering is required. Throughout
Continued
CLIPPER CARGO—James A. Farley, then Postmaster General, supervises the loading of first Pacific air mail—110,000 letters.
UPPERS AND LOWERS—Passengers enjoyed full-size berths.