ALEMEDA TIMES STAR, Nov. 17, 1965
Historic Alameda Flight Recalled
'/ Was A Crew Member Aboard China Clipper'
check on our drift by sighting on the flares he had released. Then there were frequent fuel checks and conferences with the plane commander, as we were always trying to get as many miles as possible out of the engines for the fuel we used.
All this kept me moving around from one end of the Clipper to the other during that long night flight to Honolulu. I walked through the dawn, which caught us by the tail, and had breakfast from the sandwiches I carried in a paper bag. And I was still walking when the peaks of Hawaii rose out of a cloud bank in the west. (And I was still walking when we raised the Philippines. I often claim I’m the only man who ever walked across the Pacific.)
By that time we’d been out almost 20 hours and even the non-walkers were feeling a little weary. And then Captain Musick surprised us. We were told to shave (in cold water, at that) and get back into uniform. There was some grumbling, but we realized later that this was a master stroke. Getting cleaned up not only made us feel better — when the crew stepped off the Clipper all spic and span you’d thought we’d just taken a swing around the harbor. It made the ocean crossing look routine.
There was an official reception at Honolulu, but it was small scale. We'd been through Hawaii on four survey flights and flying the Pacific was getting to be old hat tc the people there. But the welcoming committee and all our Navy friends seemed to be impressed with our carefully creased uniforms and our white caps and our bright and shining faces. There were some speeches and they handed out leis. All I wanted by that time was a place to sit down.
(EDITOR’S NOTE: Thirty years ago Victor Wright was a member of the crew of the China Clipper, the Pan American Airways flying boat, which made the first flight across the Pacific. Capt. Wright, now retired, lives in Florida and here recalls that history-making flight.)
By CAPTAIN VICTOR WRIGHT
It was 30 years ago, on the afternoon of November 22, 1935, that our Pan American Airways China Clipper took off from San Francisco Bay on what was not only the first scheduled transoceanic flight in history but also the first flight across the Pacific to the Orient.
There was a huge crowd to see us off from Alameda on the bay front and there were a lot of speeches about what the flight meant, but I don’t think anyone, mentioned what was uppermost in the minds of those of us in the crew — that this was also to be the China Clipper’s first ocean crossing.
We had made the first four survey flights, during which we had island-hopped as far as Guam, in a smaller flying boat, the S-42. The Martin M-130 or China Clipper, which had been designed and built especially for Pan Am’s ocean routes, was a much larger and faster plane with a greater range. We’d picked up this first Clipper at the Baltimore factory and flew her down to Miami, where we made a number of flights so that we could get acquainted with the airplane. Then we ferried her out to San Francisco Bay by flying across the Gulf of Mexico and the narrow part of Mexico at the Isthmus oi Tehuantepec (as the Clipper was a flying boat, we had to stay as close we • could to water) and then up through Acapulco and San Diego to San Francisco.
CAPT. VICTOR WRIGHT
No Time for Bunk
After the S-42, the China Clipper seemed pretty big to us. The hull of the Clipper was 90 feet from bow to stern, from the pilots’ compartment to the after end of the cabin. Since we would be carrying no paying passengers on the early trips, they’d stripped the seats and furnishings out of the cabin to make room for mail and cargo. So there was plenty of room to move around in but no place where you could make yourself realty comfortable. But that didn’t bother us because we knew that with a new plane and a new ocean to fly, we’d be too busy to do much resting. As a matter of fact, we had a bunk up forward, but I don’t remember anyone using it.
Our departure from Alameda was spectacular, though we didn’t plan it that way. After leaving the waterfront ramp Captain Edwin C. Musick circled on the water a few times to warm up the engines and then headed up the bay toward the looping wires of the San Francisco-Oakland bridge, then being built. As we left the water a
convoy of escorting planes closed in behind us.
It had been our intention to fly over the bridge, but Musick quickly saw that with the engine cowl flaps open he wouldn’t be able to get up enough speed to clear the wires, so he nosed the Clipper down at the last moment and went under the bridge cables, threading his way through the dangling construction wires. We all ducked and held our breaths until we were in the clear. I think the little planes must have been as surprised as we were, but they all followed us right through.
For that first leg of the trip — the long, overnight hop to Honolulu — there we,re just us seven crew members aboard the China Clipper. There were two pilots, plane commander Musick and R.O.D. Sullivan, two engineers, both of us named Wright but unrelated, navigators Fred Noonan and George King and radio operator Wilson T. Jarboe, Jr. Each of us was trained for more than one job, so that we could spell one another during long flights. For example, though I was primarily an engineering officer at that time, I also held a transport pilot’s license and a radio operator’s certificate, so I could fill in at those posts.
With no passengers, we could dress for comfort on the flight to Hawaii. As soon as we’d cleared the coast we got out of the uniforms we’d worn for the departure ceremonies and put on something comfortable, as they say, for the 21-hour flight which lay ahead. I wore a pair of red pajamas and bedroom slippers, I remember, and the rest of the crew were just about as informal. We were a strange-looking bunch of trail-blazers.
‘Walked Across Ocean
In those days we didn’t have all the instruments and the cockpit indicators they now use and the engineer had to roam around the Clipper, spotchecking the various control systems. And whenever the navigator needed a hand, one of us would have to go back to the after-end of the cabin and
First Passengers That night at Honolulu we loaded up with a lot of food and equipment for the island bases. And we took on 14 company passengers, replace-