Saturday. Apr. 17 - Oct. 23
Morning trip by train to Canton where we arrive in time for lunch.
Sunday. Apr. 18 - Oct. 24
Return to Hongkong via the river steamer, passing historic shrines, old fortresses, river junks and industrial plants along the waterfront. Overnight in Hongkong. Monday, Apr. 19 - Oct. 25
Leave Hongkong. Arrive Manila. Transfer to Hotel Manila. Afternoon sightseeing trip through the city including places of interest.
Tuesday, Apr. 20 - Oct. 26 At leisure in Manila.
Wednesday, Apr. 21 - Oct. 27
We will include a most interesting all day trip to the Pagsanjan Rapids and Falls.
Thursday, Apr. 22 - Oct. 28
During our stay we hope also to include visits to historic Bataan and Corregidor.
OPTION NUMBER 2 — Tour of the Orient - 26 Days
Friday, Apr. 23 - Oct. 29
Those who wish to include only the round trip to the Orient will leave Manila and arrive at the Island of Guam that same evening.
Saturday, Apr. 24 - Oct. 30
Arrive Island of Wake. As we cross the date line we regain the extra day which we lost westbound.
Arrive Honolulu just after midnight. Transfer to Royal Hawaiian Hotel for rest and relaxation.
Leave Honolulu. Sleeperette service included.
Sunday. Apr. 25 - Oct. 31
Arrive Los Angeles. (Members may elect to remain longer at Honolulu if desired.)
Friday, Apr. 23 - Oct. 29
Leave Manila. Arrive Bangkok.
Saturday, Apr. 24 - Oct. 30
This day will be given to sightseeing in this fascinating Oriental city.
Sunday, Apr. 25 - Oct. 31
Leave Bangkok and arrive Calcutta, India. Transfer to Hotel. Plans for India during the next 10 days include the following tentative schedule:
Monday, Apr. 26 - Nov. 1
Sightseeing in Calcutta.
Tuesday, Apr. 27 - Nov. 2
To Benares, the sacred city of India.
Wednesday, Apr. 28 - Nov. 3
To Agra, famed for its historic relics and the Taj Mahal. Friday, Apr. 30 - Nov. 5
Continue to Delhi, the famous Capital of India. Three days for sightseeing and relaxation.
Monday, May 3 - Nov. 8
Return to Calcutta or continue on to Karachi as conditions warrant.
Tuesday, May 4 - Nov. 9
Leave Calcutta and after a stop at Karachi, Pakistan, continue on to Damascus, Syria.
Wednesday, May 5 - Nov. 10
Arrive Damascus and transfer to Hotel Orient Palace. Afternoon sightseeing to Mosque of Suleiman, Tomb of Saladin and Bazaars.
Thursday, May 6 - Nov. 11
Afternoon drive to Baalbec, visit the world famous Roman Temple with its amazing foundation stones. Overnight. Friday, May 7 - Nov. 12
Drive to Aleppo via Homs and Hama and the Orontes Valley. Baron Hotel.
Saturday, May 8 - Nov. 13
In Aleppo, visiting the Citadel and the Oriental market; Sunday, May 9 - Nov. 14
By motor along the famous old Roman highway to Anti-
och for luncheon and continue on via Kessab and Musa Dagh to Latakia. Overnight.
Monday, May 10 - Nov. 15
Drive along the blue coast of Syria and Leban, past ruined Crusader Castles via Tripoli to Beirut. Hotel St. George.
Tuesday, May 11 - Nov. 16
Visit city and the American University and drive over the shoulder of lebel Sinnin to Damascus in the afternoon. Overnight.
Wednesday, May 12 - Nov. 17
Leave by plane over the Taurus Mountains and across the great plains of Turkey to Istanbul.
Thursday, May 13 - Nov. 18 — Saturday May 15 - Nov. 20
Three days in and around this fabulous and historic old city—the former Constantinople. Visits to St. Sophia, the Mosque of Suleiman, the Seraglio, the Armory and the famous museum with its treasures.
Sunday, May 16 - Nov. 21
Leave Istanbul and arrive London. Transfer to Hotel Savoy.
Monday, May 17 - Nov. 22
For rest or individual action.
Tuesday, May 18 - Nov. 23
Leave London in evening.
Wednesday, May 19 - Nov. 24
Arrive New York. Members will be provided with a return ticket to Los Angeles. Inclusive arrangements terminate on arrival New York.
Thursday. May 20 - Nov. 25 Arrive Los Angeles.
OPTION NUMBER 3
An alternate return may be made via Rome, Lisbon, and the Azores, with privilege ot stopovers if desired. Direct return could be made as follows:
Tuesday, May 18 - Nov. 23
Leave Istanbul via Rome and transfer planes at Lisbon. Wednesday, May 19 • Nov. 24
Arrive New York.
PRICES
Around the Orient, Los Angeles and return	.$2445.00
Federal tax $40.50
Around the World, Los Angeles and return	.$3740.00
Federal tax $41.72
GENERAL INFORMATION
RESERVATIONS may be made by sending deposit of $300.00 to the Hemphill Travel Service, 727 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 14, or through our authorized representatives. Final payment due one month before departure.
INCLUDED ARE: transportation as outlined, sightseeing by private motor cars, meals, hotel accommodations (two persons to a room basis and best available everywhere; single rooms, if available will be provided at tariff supplement), transfers and handling of 66 pounds of baggage in not more than two pieces, all tips and the assistance of the cruise manager in matters pertaining to tour operation.
NOT INCLUDED are federal transportation taxes, charges for passports, visaes, tourist cards, laundry, liquors, mineral water or items of a personal nature.
CONSULT the management regarding proper clothing. CANCELLATION may be made at any time prior to departure. Full refund of deposit will be made in such cases up to one month before departure and after that time if no expense has been incurred. INSURANCE of person and baggage is recommended.
TRAVELERS CHECKS are recommended for handling of personal funds and will be secured on request by the cruise management.
NOTE: The Hemphill Travel Service acts only in the capacity of agents in all matters of transportation and its liability is limited to the terms of tickets and membership agreements.
Rates are based upon rates of exchange in effect as of January, 1948, and are subject to change.
HEMPHILL WORLD CRUISES
727 W. 7th St. - Suite 425
1-48—-5MG.S. Los Angeles 14 - TR. 0146
Around
The World
Air Cruises
1948
Featuring AIR TRAVEL via
Wf Pam American Wobio Airways
System of lie^Ffylny Cflppers
HAWAII WAKE TOKYO SHANGHAI PEIPING HONG KONG MANILA BANGKOK CALCUTTA KARACHI DAMASCUS ISTANBUL LONDON ROME LISBON MADRID AZORES NEW YORK
MEMBER
HEMPHILL WORLD CRUISES
LOS ANGELES
I fiCC L?Oy