Hemphill9«
FOREWORD
This is your invitation to join our first Around the World Air Cruise. Yours is the unique opportunity of seeing the world and its peoples under neic and changing conditions. Today is 1948 and this is the age of flight. The modern way to see the world comfortably and luxuriously is by air.
The people of the world no longer look down but up. Symbolizing man’s eternal effort to lift himself above his surroundings and his aspiration towards higher things, our flight around the world offers an exaltation of spirit and visual evidence of the earth’s immensity and man’s universal struggle. This can be understood only by those who have shaken earth’s shackles and learned to fly. In the short space of fifty-two days we will visit places and see things that could not have been done in six months before the war.
This group will be limited to not more than 12 members. Our plans are made very carefully with consideration for changing conditions. We will have many alternatives and optional arrangements available as a result of experience in handling many previous Around the World groups. Changes in schedule if necessary will be made on the spot. Only those who can readily adjust themselves to things as we find them should take this trip.
It is understood that all arrangements will be in keeping with the highest standards available in each of the countries visited. Confirmed air reservations have been held for several months and bookings are now being accepted. I intend to accompany this group personally.
$.U)
Escorted HWfwrlil Æir Cs'uise«
AROUND THE WORLD SCHEDULES 1948 —52 Days
PAH-61-62
Tuesday, Mar. 30 - Oct. 5
Leave Los Angeles airport on Pan American World Airways Sleeperette service.
Wednesday, Mar. 31 - Oct. 6
Arrive Honolulu. Transfer to Royal Hawaiian Hotel. The balance of day for rest and recreation on the beach. Thursday, Apr. 1 - Oct. 7
On this day a circle tour of the island will be arranged. Return after lunch via Schofield Barracks, Wheeler Field, and Pearl Harbor to the hotel.
Friday, Apr. 2 - Oct. 8 At leisure in Honolulu.
Saturday, Apr. 3 - Oct. 9
Leave Honolulu. Arrive and leave Wake. On our departure across the international date line time will move ahead one day.
Monday, Apr. 5 - Oct. 11
Arrive Tokyo, Japan, and transfer to hotel. Day free for rest or independent action. Our proposed plans for Japan include the following:
Tuesday. Apr. 6 - Oct. 12
Sightseeing trip through Tokyo visiting principal places of interest.
Wednesday, Apr. 7 - Oct. 13
Leave Tokyo by motor via Yokohama, Kamakura and Hakone.
Thursday, Apr. 8 - Oct. 14
By rail to Kyoto, historic and classic center of old Nippon, undoubtedly the most interesting city in Japan. Friday, Apr. 9 - Oct. 15
All day sightseeing trip through Kyoto visiting the Old Imperial Palace, a silk weaving factory and the shopping district.
Saturday, Apr. 10 - Oct. 16
All day excursion to Nara, visit the Deer Park, the Avenue of Lanterns, the Great Bell and the Diabutsu. Luncheon at the Nara Hotel, and return to Kyoto. Sunday, Apr. 11 - Oct. 17
Return to Tokyo. Balance of day free for independent action.
Monday, April 12 - Oct. 18
Leave Tokyo and arrive Shanghai. Transfer to the Cathay Hotel.
Tuesday, Apr. 13 - Oct. 19 and Wednesday, Apr. 14 - Oct. 20
During this time we will include visits to places of interest in the vicinity of Shanghai with a possible one day excursion to Hangchow by rail.
OPTION NUMBER 1 — NORTH CHINA Monday, Apr. 5 - Oct. 11
Should conditions prevent our spending this week in Japan, we will continue this date from Tokyo to Shanghai and transfer to the Hotel Cathay.
Tuesday, Apr. 6 - Oct. 12
Leave Shanghai for Peiping on China National Aviation Company's plane. The flight takes approximately 3V2 hours and is made on non-stop DC-4 plane. Transfer to the Wagon Lits Hotel. The next six days will be spent in what is undoubtedly the most fascinating oriental city in the world. We will have ample time to become thoroughly acquainted with the most interesting parts of the city, the old Chinese Forbidden City, the Temple of Heaven, and the Winter Palace. There will be visits to the Summer Palace and the western hills outside of the city, and an all day trip to the Great Wall and the Ming tombs. This is a most interesting time of the year in North China.
Tuesday. Apr. 13 - Oct. 19
Return to Shanghai on non-stop DC-4 Rlane.
Wednesday, Apr. 14 - Oct. 20 In Shanghai at leisure.
Thursday, Apr. 15 - Oct. 21
Leave Shanghai. Arrive Hongkong. Transfer to hotel. Friday, Apr. 16 - Oct. 22
Sightseeing through the city including a trip to the peak and a drive around the island via Repulse Bay.