CZECHOSLOVAKIA
Hairdressing: Some big hotels have salons. Average cost of shampoo and set from 40Kcs (tip 5Kcs); man’s haircut, from lOKcs (tip 2Kcs).
Photography: Local stores sell East German and Agfa film; Kodak available at Tuzex. Developing services slow; black and white from 5Kcs, color from 35Kcs, but safest to have it done at home. Do not take pictures near military or frontier zones, or in front of railway stations and airports.
Babysitting: Arrange with hotel or try the student service—Studentsky Podnik (tel: 53 42 54).
Rest Rooms: Public ones charge 50 hellers. Also in hotels and restaurants; women,Dhmy or Zeny; men, Phni or Muzi.
Health: Health services are first-class. There is a clinic for foreigners at Karlovo námesti, Prague (English spoken). First aid for accidents available at any hospital or health counter. Some doctors and dentists speak English. Pharmaceuticals available by prescription only.
TRANSPORTATION
You can travel by streetcar, bus, or trolley anywhere in Prague for lKc, but it is necessary to buy tickets in advance at hotel reception desks, restaurants, or tobacconists. Prague also has a two-line 13-kilometer subway system; fare is lKc, but one must have the coin to get through the turnstile. Taxis are inexpensive but rather scarce (2.8Kcs a mile, 2Kcs extra for luggage).
Czechoslovakia has a good rail system, though trains tend to be crowded. It is possible to arrange through Cedok to rent chauffeur-driven or U-drive cars. Gas coupons are sold at advantageous rates for foreign currency from Cedok or Tuzex. Long-distance bus services are good, and internal airlines (Czechoslovakia Airlines, known as CSA, and Slovair) fly between Prague, Bratislava, Brno, and holiday centers.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
This is not a country for people on diets. The Czechs are hearty eaters and enjoy dumplings with nearly everything—in soups, stews, and again as a dessert. The national dish is roast pork(veprovh), or goose (husa), with sauerkraut (zeli) and dumplings (knedliky). Vegetables are scarce, but meat (maso) is usually served with a salad.
For a meal with a view go to Praha Expo (Letenské sady). Other restaurants are the Ofcivlfe Drevo (Living Wood) in the Strahov Monastery and the Opera Grill at Divadelni24. In the Lesser Town across the river try the U labuti (Swans, Hradcanské námesti’ 11—tel: 539476), Valdsteinská Hospoda (Tomásská 16—tel: 536195), and U tori pstrosu (Ostriches, Drazického námesti" 12—tel: 532238). Food is good at inexpensive restaurants such as the Pelikán (Na Prikope 7—tel: 220782) or the Vysocina (Národnf28—tel: 225773). There are a number of lunch bars and selfservice automats. For fish, try the Rybi Grill (Václavské námesti). A meal in an expensive restaurant will come to about US$7; in a medium-priced one-US$3.50-4; in an inexpensive one, about US$2.50.