YUGOSLAVIA
Museum. If you cross the river to Novi Beograd, the new section of the city, you will find the Sava Center—a super-modern conference, concert etc. centre with select late-night shopping, snack bars and restaurants, and the Modern Art Museum, which has examples of modern painting and sculpture. Other museums are the Museum of Applied Arts, the Ethnographic Museum, and the Theatrical Arts Museum. It is well worth taking a hydrofoil trip on the Danube. Also take a morning’s walk through the open-air peasant markets.
Dubrovnik: This, the most famous resort of the Dalmatian coast, has not only managed to preserve its 16th-century atmosphere but has 250 days of sunshine, too. The ancient part of the town is encircled by high walls with huge guard towers. There are many outstanding buildings, including the Church of Sveti Spas, St Saviour, the Sponza Palace, and the Rector’s Palace. During the summer festival in Dubrovnik, Shakespeare’s plays are performed in the Lovrijenac Fortress, concerts are given in the Sponza Palace, and all the courtyards and squares are used for operas, plays, and music. Among restaurants are the Dubravka Caffe, Rozari for fine seafood, the cafes in Prijeko ulica, the Jadran at the old convent near the Onofrio fountain, and the Ocean, specializing in broiled meats. For something different, have lunch in the Benedictine abbey on the nearby isle of Lokrum. Hotels include: Argentina (from US$25 CP double), Dubrovnik-Palace (from US $56 CP double),Dubrovnik-Presi-dent (from US$62 double), Excelsior (from US$25 CP double), Grand Hotel Park (from US$24 CP double), Imperial (from US$40CP double), Kompas (from US$27 CP double), Lero (from US$22 CP double), Libertas (from US$62 CP double), and Neptun (from US$23 CP double). Nearby Dubrovnik, at Cavtat is the new luxury Croatia resort (from US$62 CP).
Split: North of Dubrovnik, Split was built around a 4th-century Roman palace of the Emperor Diocletian, which has been made the center of the annual Split Summer Festival. Of interest are the Venetian Gothic and Renaissance buildings, medieval churches, and towers. The Mestrovic Gallery contains the works of famous Yugoslav sculptors. For hotels, try the Marjan, Obala JNA No. 8 (from US $30 CP double) and the Split (from US$18 CP double). Also the Park, Setaliste 1, Maja 15 (from US$28 CP double).
The island of Krk (which can be reached from Rijeka) is the scene of Penthouse Adriatic (from US$32 CP double), a luxury vacation enterprise whose wide-ranging facilities cater to the most extravagant needs.
It is well worth taking a cruise from Split around the Adriatic islands, stopping at Hvar (an Adriatic paradise with a uniquely mild all-year climate) and Korcula (birthplace of Marco Polo), renowned for its wine and colorful traditional dancing.
Opatija: In a glorious coastal setting backed by green mountains Opatija is a paradise of flowers, fruit and trees. The attractive, modernized town was originally developed as a resort for wealthy Hungarian and Austrian nobility, and grand old hotels bear witness to this. An elegant old casino is a feature of the town, and the music festival,