POLAND
with double rooms from US$48 CP; the Holiday Inn, with double rooms from US$49.
At Wieliczka, 8 miles from Cracow, you can visit the oldest salt mines in the world. They have been worked since the 10th century and are still being worked today. Deep underground are carved passages and grottoes and even a chapel and a tennis court. There is also a huge natural crystal grotto. Visit Auschwitz (Oswiecim), the former Nazi concentration camp where millions of people from 26 nations perished in the years 1940-45. Auschwitz has a museum now (40 miles from Cracow).
In 1973 Poland celebrated the 500th anniversary of the birth of its great astronomer, Copernicus. Follow the Copernicus Trail, which covers places where he lived and worked. Starting in Warsaw, the trail leads to Olsztyn, which is the gateway to the beautiful Masurian Lake District (see Sports), through Frombork, with its 14th-century cathedral buildings, and to Gdhnsk, the historic Polish port. Try to see the animated cathedral organ in the suburb of Oliwa. Stay at the Monopol-Orbis, the Novotel-Orbis, or the Posejdon-Orbis (all from US$30 double BB). Nearby are Gdynia, a modern port, and Sopot, Poland’s big seaside resort. When in Sopot stay at Grand-Orbis Hotel situated on the beach (from US$27 double CP). There are many beautiful beaches along the Baltic shore, which is known as the “Amber Coast” because of the ancient trade in amber throughout this region. The Copernicus Trail continues through Malbork, whose 14th-century Castle of the Order of Teutonic Knights is said to be the best-preserved medieval structure in central Europe. The trail ends at Torun, Copernicus’s birthplace, which has a medieval “leaning tower.” Stay at the Hotel Orbis-Kosmos (from US$23 double BB). Other places of tourist interest include Poznah, where the International Trade Fair is held (the Merkury-Orbis, Roosevelta 20, and newly built Polonez-Orbis, Stalingradzka 54-68, both US$35 double CP); Wroclaw, with Gothic town hall and modern pantomime groups; and Szczecin, ancient capital of Western Pomerania, situated at the mouth of the Oder River (stay at the Arkona-Orbis and Continental-Orbis hotels, from US$33 double BB; the Pomorski hotel, from US$20 double BB and the New Poznan-Orbis Hotel (from US$40). Worth seeing are the Tatra mountain region and Bialowieza nature reserve near the Russian frontier, where Europe’s only bison are protected in their wild state. Also visit Czestochowa, where there’s the Jasna Gora Monastery, Polish Catholicism’s most sacred shrine. The monastery possesses a picture of the Czestochowa Virgin Mary (Black Madonna), subject of a religious cult dating back to medieval times and regarded by Polish Catholics as the Queen of Poland. Stay at the Patria-Orbis Hotel (Ochotnikow Wojenncyh 1, from US$30 double CP). In Eastern Poland you may visit the ancient town of Lublin with a beautiful castle (16th century) and Old Town. Located there is the only socialist country Catholic University (Katolicki Uniwersytet Lubleski) where Pope John Paul II used to teach ethics.