CZECHOSLOVAKIA
DRINKING TIPS
Czechoslovakia is famous for its Pilsner beer. You’ll find several beer gardens in former monasteries where sturdy dark beer is served, for example, Prague has a number of interesting wine cellars, among them U Zlatfe Konvice and U Zlatfeho Jelena. From Moravia comes the fiery Czech Slivovice (plum brandy). Imported wines and liquor are available, but a whisky and soda will cost you about US$4.
ENTERTAINMENT
There are sophisticated nightclubs and cabarets at, for example, the Jalta Hotel Club, Lucerna (Stepanskii 61), and EST-bar (Washingtonova 19, Prague). Prague has a profusion of theaters at which opera, ballet, plays, and puppet and mime shows are performed, and there are five symphony orchestras. The Prague Spring International Music Festival is held from 12 May to 4 June. The Laterna Magika show combines opera, ballet, theater, and cinema. Tickets to cultural performance generally cost about US$5.
SHOPPING
Shop at the country-wide network of Tuzex state stores, where you can buy local or imported goods for Tuzex vouchers (obtainable through Cedok) or for foreign currency at advantageous rates, duty and tax free. Keep the invoices for exit customs. Uva (Na-Prikope 25) and Uluv (Wenceslas Square) are good for handicrafts: Bijoux de Bohfeme (Star-omesfskfe n&mesti 6) for jewelry; and Ceskfe Sklo a Keramika (N&rodni 43) for glass and ceramics. The Moser shop (Na Prrkope 12) specializes in crystalware. Other stores include Dun Mbdy (fashions and textiles), Dun Obuvi (shoes), and Detsky Dum (children’s goods). Prague also boasts three department stores: Bila Labut (Na porici 23), Kotva (n&mestf Republiky), and Maj (N&rodni 29), and two fashion shops at Stepanska— David’s Paris and Aquascutum—London. Prage are stabilized, so there is no bargaining. Stores are open from 8 or 9am-6pm weekdays, until noon Saturdays.
SPORTS
Soccer is the main spectator sport, but there is also world-class ice-hockey as well as skating, tennis, and horseback riding. Winter sports are a big tourist attraction; good snow conditions are found Christmas to April in the High Tatra mountains. Hunting is popular; arrangements are handled by Cedok. There is angling in the rivers, lakes, and dams. Carlsbad and Marienbad have golf courses. Prague and Bratislava minigolf courses.
WHAT TO SEE
Golden Prague, the city of a hundred spires, is built on seven hills and spans the river Vltava. It is small enough for the walker to see many of the major sights. Hradcany Castle is the former home of Czech kings. The