YUGOSLAVIA
ENTERTAINMENT
While in Belgrade make sure you get a copy of Belgradescope from your hotel for a detailed and up-to-date account of nightlife. A highlight the year round, but especially in summer, is Skadarlija, a reconstructed turn-of-the-century street jammed with sidewalk cafés,hot-food stands, and fine restaurants and featuring roving singers, poetry recitals, and art stalls. There are few nightclubs as such, but you will find that many restaurants have dancing and a good floor show, as do the bigger hotels. Nightclubs are attached to the hotels Majestic, Yugoslavia, and Metropol, and other clubs are the Latos and Romani Tar. There are casinos in Belgrade and other resort centers. Discotheques in Belgrade are the Cepelin, Simonida, Kalemegdan, Adriatic, and the Hotel Balkan. Summer festivals throughout Yugoslavia provide music, drama, opera, ballet, and film. An international theatre festival is held in Belgrade in early September.
SHOPPING
Local handicrafts, popular with visitors, include costumed dolls, embroidered blouses, filigree jewelry, leather goods, carved wooden items, dyed wool rugs, and gold and silver work. Crystal is good and reasonably priced. If you buy with foreign currency, some stores will give a discount. There are numerous handicraft stores around Belgade, one in Knez Mihailova 2-4, where you will also find a craft store called Fontana. The Beogradjanka, (Masarikova 5) and the Belgrade (Terazije 15-23), are department stores and is a good source of just about everything.
SPORTS
The Adriatic coast is ideal for every kind of water sport. Log-rafting trips through the spectacular canyons of the Tara (white water) and Drina River are very popular. Fishing along the coast and in the lakes and rivers of Yugoslavia is good, but you need a license; see the Yugoslav Tourist Information Office about this. Winter sports are excellent. International ski jumping contests are held in Planica, just south of the Austrian border, in late March; in the Slovene Alps, Kranjska Gora, Pokljuka, and Pohorje are three good resorts. So are Bled and Bohinji lake districts; in other parts of the country are Jahorina, Kopaonik, Zlatibor, and directly south in Macedonia, Mavrovo. Skiing here is considerably less expensive than in the more popular resorts of Europe.
WHAT TO SEE
Belgrade is at the confluence of the Danube and the Sava. The great fortress of Kalemegdan, a great stone building in the form of a terraced bastion is a relic of the Turkish occupation. There are several imposing gateways, turrets, ramparts, and a “Roman” well (sunk by the Austrians). The National Museum in Belgrade has a rich collection of antiquities, and the National Theater just opposite stages the renowned annual opera season. Beautiful monastic frescoes can be seen in the Fresco Art Gallery and frescoes and icons of great beauty in the Serbian Orthodox Church