POLAND
Dominating the Warsaw skyline now is the 765-foot high Palace of Science and Culture, which houses theaters, restaurants, scientific institutions, a swimming pool, and a vast Congress Hall. From the top you get a spectacular view of the whole of the city, including the modern residential quarter of the Muranbw, which replaces the Nazi-destroyed Jewish ghetto. Here is the impressive Monument to the Heroes of the Ghetto.
Castle Square with its 17th-century King Sigismund Column is the best starting place for a tour of Old Warsaw. The itinerary from there past the Royal Castle, which is still being rebuilt, and up Krakowskie PrzedmieScie Street, with its baroque churches and palaces and fine patrician houses, to Nowy Swiat, is known as the Royal Route. Where the two roads join is the Church of the Holy Cross. The heart of Frédéric Chopin is kept in an urn there, at his request, though his body is buried in France, where he died. Its winding alleyways, old houses, and medieval barbican give the Old Town an unforgettable charm. The marketplace (Rynek Starego Miasta) is one of the finest in Europe, and the 14th-century St John’s Cathedral has been rebuilt in the original Gothic style. The 17th-and 18th-century New Town (Nowe Miasto), which has a fine marketplace, has also been restored. Visitors should find time to wander in gracious Lazienki Park and see the 18th-century lakeside palace. Try to visit, too, baroque Wilanbw Palace on the south side of the city, which has many artistic and historic treasures.
Nieborbw, a 17th-century palace in beautiful grounds, is about 50 miles south of Warsaw. Zelazowa Wola, Chopin’s birthplace, is about 35 miles west, on the road to Poznah. Other towns of interest in the Warsaw area include Warka, a picturesque vine-growing town with a museum commemorating General Kazimierz Pulaski, who commanded troops in the American Revolutionary War and Lfiwicz, center of a folklore region, with an interesting Museum of Folk Art. Kampinos Forest, outside Warsaw, is a national park where elks still roam.
Unlike Warsaw, Cracow, one of the most beautiful medieval towns in Europe, was undamaged in the war. It lies 200 miles to the south of Warsaw and was once the capital of Poland. The Royal Castle towers over the town on Wawel Hill and houses an art collection containing the famous Arras Tapestries. Nearby is the Cathedral where Polish kings are buried. The Sigismund Chapel is a fine example of Renaissance architecture. The arcaded Cloth Hall in the Market Square was built in the 14th century and rebuilt during the Renaissance. On the first floor is a collection of Polish paintings. A medieval bugle call is played every hour from the tallest of St Mary’s Church towers. Inside is the famous 15th-century altarpiece carved by Wit Stwosz. The Czartoryski Museum has works by Leonardo da Vinci and Rembrandt, and the Jagiellonian University, founded by Casimir the Great in 1364 and now a museum, has magnificent Gothic buildings ranged around a courtyard. The museum houses a priceless collection of instruments used by Copernicus and other medieval astronomers. Hotels include the Cracowia-Orbis,