POLAND
International Jazz Jamboree in October. Season tickets for the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra at the National Philharmonic Hall can be obtained. The Congress Hall is the towering Palace of Science and Culture is also an impressive setting for shows and concerts. W arsaw’s Grand Opera House, rebuilt since the war, stages excellent performances, and several other towns (including Poznàn and Gdahsk) are especially interesting and have many lively shows, including satire. Movie houses show some English and American movies with original soundtrack and Polish subtitles.
Visitors should try and see a festival combining Poland’s wealth of folk dance, song, and costume. The biggest is the Harvest Festival in September, which is held every year in a different town. The Cracow Youth Festival takes place in May. Sopot has an international festival of song in August, and in October there is an international festival of amateur song and dance ensembles at Zielona Gòra, which features many of Poland’s famous regional groups.
Songs often dominate the nightclub scene in Warsaw. Young singers present new songs at the Bristol Hotel’s song club, where there is also a discotheque open until 2am, slot machines, two bars, and a large restaurant with dance bands. In some nightclubs there are floor shows and strip tease is performed. Principal nightclubs in Warsaw are the Euopejski, a deluxe nightclub (known to locals as Kamieniolomy) in the Hotel Europejski; the Krokodyl, with waitresses in traditional dress; the Adria (Moniuski 8—tel: 274246), deluxe nightclub and restaurant; the Kongresowa, in the Palace of Science and Culture complex; the Black Cat in the Victoria Hotel. There are also jazz clubs. Try Piwnica Wandy Warskiej and Bynek Starego Miasta; students listen and play jazz at Remont, Warynskiego (corner of Polna), Stodola clubs and Akwa-Rium Club, Emilii Plater St, where visiting US jazz men used to play. If you speak some Polish, sample the satirical cabarets which Warsaw is noted for, especially the Pod Egida which recently moved to a new place, restaurant Melodia at Ulica Nowy Swiat 3/5. For older visitors there is classical music at Bazyliszek restaurant, Old Town Market, and at Ambassador restaurant, opposite the American Embassy in Aleje Ujazdowskie Street.
SHOPPING
Stores (other than food stores) are open from 11-7 Mon-Sat, closed Sun. Polish craftwork is fascinating; wood carvings, boxes, and handwoven rugs come mostly from the Zakopane region. Other souvenirs include costume dolls, glass, amber jewelry, embroidery, paper cutouts, and models of firearms from the 16th and 17th centuries.
In Warsaw and other cities, Cepelia stores specialize in folk craft articles. Orno shops have a wide selection of silverwork and jewelry. Pewex shops sell gold coins and jewelry against hard currency. Desa is the place to go for works of art and antiques, but some items need an export permit. Warsaw’s largest department stores are Wars (across from the Palace of Culture), Junior, and Sawa (in Marszalkowska Street).