POLAND
German. Developing takes 3-7 days for black and white, and up to 10 days for color (Kodak can be developed in some private laboratories— 120-200Z4 per film and development.) It is illegal to take photographs of industrial, transport, or military installations, and no pictures may be taken from the air.
Babysitting: Hotels may oblige.
Rest Rooms: Charge 2ZL Women, Dla Ptin, Dla Kobiet, or Damska; men, Dla Panbw, Dla Mezczyzn, or Mkski.
Health: Some doctors and dentists speak a little English. Drinking water safe; milk is pasteurized.
TRANSPORTATION
In Warsaw metered taxis are obtainable at stands or ordered by phone. The charge is 7ZP for the first kilometer and 4.50Zh per kilometer thereafter; double fare between 11pm and 5am. Taxis are easily recognizable. A pleasant way to see the city is by horse-drawn carriage— but fix the charge first. Warsaw has bus and streetcar services, tickets can be bought at any newspaper kiosk. Poland has a network of longdistance buses (PKS), and the railroad system is also quite extensive, providing connections with all main cities. Remember that it is 75% more expensive to travel by express train than on ordinary passenger services. Internal air services are run by Polish Airlines (LOT). Coastal and inland steamer services are a restful way of seeing the country in the summer.
Car rental or chauffeur-driven cars may be obtained through Orbis. Rent a car stations are in Warsaw, Gdansk, Katowice, Krakow, Lodz, Olsztyn, Poznan, Szczecin, Wroclaw and are run by Orbis in cooperation with Avis Co. However, there are only Polish-made cars under Italian licenses available—Fiat 125P, Fiat 132P. Rates will be slightly changed in the forthcoming season, probably 10-15$ higher. Tourists arriving in their own cars need an international driving license, passport, and visa. Fuel coupons can be bought in advance from Orbis agents, however, tourists with Western plates must pay for gas with currency; a liter costs approximately US34-35 cents at the tourist exchange rate. The Poles run a novel system for hitchhikers; for those over 17 the PTTK sells books of coupons entitling them to 2,000 kilometers of travel during the summer season. These coupons are handed over to the motorist who gives them lifts, and the motorist with the most coupons wins a prize. Radio Taxi (919 phone) Radio Taxi drivers try to get paid in LIS dollars as black market rate in Poland is 3-4 times higher than official exchange rate of 31.50ZP per US$1.00.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Polish food is generally hot, spicy, and filling. Goose, duck, and hare are popular and are usually served with sauerkraut. Knuckle of pork served with cabbage, peas, and Zijwiec beer (golonka i piwo Zywiec) is a Pozn&n specialty, while Bigos, a hunter’s stew of rabbit, pork or beef, and cabbage, often cooked in wine, can be found anywhere. Golabki, spiced meat wrapped in cabbage, is another popular dish, and you must not