HUNGARY
SPORTS
Soccer is the most popular sport. There are tennis courts and a mini-golf course at the Vorbs Csillag Hotel and tennis courts at the Sports Ground, Ulloi ht 129; swimming pools in Budapest; hiking and climbing in summer and skiing in winter in Buda Hills; freshwater fishing (Hungarian Anglers’ Association, Budapest V, Oktbber 6 utca 20) and excellent hunting (contact Mavad, I, Uri u. 39); swimming, yachting, and water-skiing in summer and ice sailing in winter at Lake Balaton.
WHAT TO SEE
First, go on one of the excellent tours organized by the Budapest Tourist Office (Roosevelt thr 5) to get oriented. This will take you to the House of Parliament; to Hosok Tere (Heroes’ Square), with monuments to the heroes of Hungary; to the People’s Stadium; and then across the Danube to Margaret Island to see the National Sports Swimming Pool, Budapest’s Lido, and the largest open-air theater in the capital. Then again across the Danube to Buda, the other half of the city, which is full of important historical monuments: the Royal Castle; the 700-year-old Matthias Church, where the former kings of Hungary were crowned; the turreted Fishermen’s Bation; and the Citadel on Gellhrt Hill. Then there is the Roman town of Aquincum, and the Aquincum Museum (Budapest III, Szentendrei ht 139); the towers of Magdalen and St Nicholas, built in the 14th and 15th centuries; the therapeutic pools of the National Institute of Rheumatism and Balneology; and Lukkcs, the Szfecheny, and many other medicinal baths, which are fed by 123 mineral springs. Most of these baths are open all through the year from 6-7pm and are a major part of Budapest’s social life. The Museum of Fine Arts (XIV, D6zsa Gyorgy fit 41) has paintings by Giotto, Titian, Raphael, Monet, and many others; the Hungarian National Museum (VII, Muzeinn koriit 14-16) has fine historical collections; and the Folklore Center (XI Feh6rv&ri (it 47) has evening programs of folk dancing and traditional Hungarian music. Take a night cruise on the Danube or the Budapest-by-Night tour.
Lake Blaaton, 65 miles from the capital, is Hungary’s playground and the largest freshwater lake in Europe. In summer, the water has an average temperature of 77°F. A warning: if you are out on the lake and see a yellow flare followed by a red one, return immediately—it means there is a violent storm coming.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION
Pan Am, Duna Inter Duna Inter» Continental, Ap&czai Csere Jimos fit 4, or any Pan Am office around the world. IBUSZ Headquarters is at Budapest V, FelszabadulAs thr 5, and the Head Of fice is at Budapest VII, Tan&cs koriit 3. The Hungarian Embassy, 2437 15th Street NW Washington DC 20009; the Hungarian Embassy, 35 Eaton Place, London SWT.