POLAND
Orbis hotels have special duty-free kiosks where, in exchange for Western currency, you can buy cigarettes, wines, and liquor, souvenirs, and other items. An unusual shopping expedition is to Rutkowskiego Street in Warsaw, where many small private shops selling gloves, hats, dress material, and jewelry are hidden away in courtyards or in upstairs rooms. There is a ban on private exports by tourists of leather goods and fur caps (fox etc.). No exports of crystal either.
SPORTS.
Opportunities for sailing, canoeing, fishing, swimming, and water-skiing are excellent in the vast Masurian Lake District, which has 2,700 lakes, most of them linked by rivers or canals. Hotels are scarce, but there are plenty of campsites. The dense forests in this region are good for hunting. Game includes stag, boar, wild duck, goose, hare, pheasant, and blackcock. Orbis will arrange hunting trips with accommodations in foresters’ huts. Fishing is supervised by the Polish Angling Association, and to fish you must buy a 1-7 or 14-day license costing from US$5 (obtainable for Orbis). Zakopane, 2,720 feet above sea level on the slopes of the dramatic Tatra mountains, is the center for mountaineering and skiing holidays. Stay at the Kasprowy-Orbis Hotel (from US$41 double; tel: 4011) on the slope of Gubalowka Mountain. The climbing season is from June-September, and there is superb skiing from December-April. The highest of Zakopane’s three ski jumps is regarded as one of the most technically perfect in the world. Poland’s Baltic coastline has many delightful sandy beaches for swimming, and Sopot is the major seaside resort. Other all-year health resort is Kolobrzeg, north of Szczecin. Stay at Solny (from US$27 CP) or at Skanpol (from US$30 CP). Polish hotels offer discounts up to 40 per cent off-season with the exception of hotels in Warsaw and Cracow. There is no golf in Poland, but some tennis clubs welcome visitors, and Orbis will arrange horseback riding holidays on selected stud farms. Horse racing is held (May-November) in Warsaw, Sopot, and Wroclaw, with Polish-bred Arabian horses participating; there’s also steeplechase racing at these spots.
WHAT TO SEE
Warsaw, once a medieval fortified town, lies on the River Vistula amid the plains of central Poland It became the country’s capital only toward the end of the 16th century. The restored Old Town (Stare Miasto) now looks as it did then. Warsaw street scenes by painters of the Canaletto School were used a guide during the restoration work after the war, and these paintings can be seen in the National Museum, which also has works from Polish and other European schools and a rare collection of Nubian frescoes. Warsaw has about 30 museums and art galleries. Among the most interesting are the Historical Museum of the City of Warsaw, with scale models of the town from prehistoric to modern times; the Museum of Martyrdom showing the persecution of the Poles by the Nazis; the Chopin Museum at Ostrogski Palace; and the Poster Museum at Wilanbw.