POLAND
miss the excellent Polish ham (szynka) and the famous beet soup (.barszcz), which is often accompanied by ouchkas, a kind of mushroom ravioli. Many of the best restaurants are to be found in Orbis hotels, and they usually have international as well as Polish menus. Good places to try include Kamienne Schody (Stare Miastro—tel: 310822), specializing in roast duck; Budapest (Marszalkowska Str.—tel: 253433), good food, music, and dancing, wine-cellar atmosphere; Rycerska (Szeroki Dunaj 11), serving excellent veal and Old Town roast meat. Good Hungarian food, music at Kuznia Krolewska (Wilanow—15 kilometers out of town—tel: 415901); also Baszta (Pyry—20 kilometers out of town—tel: 430696), which has Russian specialties as well as good Polish food. The best food and service are at the Victoria Hotel, which has 3 restaurants— Canaletto, Boryna, (brasserie) and Hetmanska (grill specialties) cafe Opera, Green Bar downstairs and a nightclub Black Cat open til 3am. As well as an excellent restaurant, the Hotel Euopejski has a lunch bar for good food and quick service, but the place is often crowded. Grand hotel also serves very good food. Forum has 2 restaurants Maryla and Soplica serving excellent onion soup (believed to be better than in Paris). It is advisable to make reservations for Saturdays or holidays, when restaurants become heavily booked. Tourists should not forget the shortage of meat in Poland. Some restaurants have meatless days on Wednesday or Thursday.
DRINKING TIPS
Coffee houses (Kawiarnia) are an instituion in Poland. People go thereto read newspapers and to meet their friends. Among the most popular in Warsaw are the upstairs coffee house at Krokodyl and Kamienne Schodki in the Old Town Market Square. Retro-Emocja, Mokotowska 57, which serves Italian pizza and good coffee. Vodka (Wodka) and beer (piwo) are widely drunk. Vodka is taken straight as an aperitif, as a mealtime drink, and as a liqueur. There are no drinking restrictions for those over 18, and bars are open all day and often until 2am in Warsaw and other main cities. Women are welcome in all bars. In Warsaw it is fun to visit some of the wine cellars, especially Fukier in the Old Town Square, which is inexpensive. U Michala (Freta Street 9) is small and intimate and serves excellent wine with spices. Around 20 small cafes were opened in the last several months in the Old City area. Some sell popcorn in the summer.
ENTERTAINMENT
To many who live in the land of Chopin and Paderewski, music is a way of life. The Polish calendar is studded with music festivals large and small. One of the most enjoyable is the Chopin Festival at Dszniki Spa every August. From June-September Chopin recitals are given on Sundays at his birthplace in Zelazowa Wola near Warsaw, and his music can also be heard frequently in the city at recitals in beautiful Lazienki Park and also at Ostrogski Palace. The Warsaw Autumn International Contemporary Music Festival is a big event, and the city also has the