YUGOSLAVIA
October in Opitija, is a favorite with visitors. There are some charming little restaurants in the town, and the Caffe Jedro, down in the port, is quiet and intimate. Opatija is convenient for an excursion to Pula, with its lst-century Roman amphitheater, the magnificent Plitvice Lakes lying on 16 different levels all connected by waterfalls and the caves at Postojna and Rovinj, a town dating from Roman times.There are many accessible seaside resorts with excellent amenities dotting the length of the 1,550 kilometer coast. Renowned and planned resorts with everything from aqua-planning to mud baths and discos. On the northern coast, they are located at Porec and Portoroz; on the southern coast, at Budva, Herceg Novi, Sveti Stefan, and the Montenegrin coast; and the lush, unfrequented islands of Losinj, Mali Losinj, Cres, Mlet, Lastovo, and countless others. During the winter months, skiing trips are arranged out of Opatija to Platak and during the summer to the Slovian Alps.
Ljubljana: The capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana is surrounded by the peaks of the Kamniske and Julijske Alps and was built around a picturesque old fort. The old part of the town, dating from the 16th century, has been restored to its original baroque style. See the 17th-century Franciscan Church and the impressive Ursuline Church, with its magnificent facade. The Tromostovje, an ornamental bridge with three connecting spans, and a marble foundation in front of the town hall are the work of the Italian sculptor Robba. The Slovenian Philharmonic Concert Hall, dating from 1702, is where Beethoven conducted the first performance of his Pastoral Symphony. Ljubljana is convenient to nearby ski centers as well as the seaside resorts. Hotels include the Sion (from US$27 CP double), Lev (from US$26 CP double), and Union (from US$26.40 CP double), and from April 1979, the country’s first Holiday Inn (from US$48 BB double)
Zagreb: The second-largest town in Yugoslavia, Zagreg is the capital of Croatia. It is dominated by the austere towers of the Cathedral, which is a formidable achievement in Gothic architecture. Another outstanding architectural monument is the Church of St Marko, which dates back to the 18th century. See also the old stone gates of the town. The city has twenty museums, eight art galleries,and an active theater and concert life. The Zagreb International Fair, held annually for hundreds of years, is one of the biggest in the world. Near Zagreb are many famous spas, such as Krapinske, Stubiske, and Tuheljske. Hotels in Zagreb are the Beograd-Garni Hotel (from US$23 CP double), the Dubrovnik-Garni Hotel (from US$24 CP double), the Esplanade, Mihanoviceva 1 (from US$44 CP double); the International Miramarska (from US$44 double); the Palace, Strossmayerov Trg 10 (from US$27 double); and theINTER - CONTINENTAL ZAGREB, Krsnjavoga 1 (from US$60 double).
Sarajevo is an interesting Oriental town with a large Turkish bazaar and many mosques, but it is notorious as the place of the assassination on 2 June 1914 of Archduke Ferdinand of Austria, which precipitated the First World War. The river Miljacka flows through the town, with 10 bridges of different styles crossing it.
Skopje is the political and cultural center of Macedonia. This city has