HUNGARY
(Màrvàny u. 19) and Règi Orszàghàz (Orszàghàz u. 17), both featuring gypsy music; Pest-Buda (Fortuna u. 3) has music from the Hungarian Biedermeyer period; Szàzèves (Pesti Barnabàs u. 2) has zither music; Tabàni Kiskakas (Attila u. 27) has a pianist; and Vasmacska (Laktaanya u. 3) features brass music in a saloon-like atmosphere. Two scenic restaurants are Halàszbàstya (Szenthàromsàg tèr), with a view of the Danube and Pest from the Fisherman’s Bastion, and Hàrmashatàrhegy, built on one of the highest points of the Buda hills. A traditional atmosphere can be found at Borkatakomba (Nagytètènyiùt 65), Fortuna (Hess Andràs tèr 4), Kàrpàtia (Kàroly u. 4-8). Szeged (Bartók Bèla ùt 1) is in the style of a fishermen’s inn, with waiters in folk costumes, and specializes in Szeged fish soup. The average restaurant meal, with wine, is US$4-7 (90-160fts).
DRINKING TIPS
Bull’s Blood of Eger is the famous Hungarian red wine, but there are many others, and also apricot, plum, and cherry brandies. Whisky and soda will cost about US$2-5 (40-100fts).
ENTERTAINMENT
All theaters, opera houses, and concert halls are state-owned, and performers, directors, designers, and stage technicians are state employees. As a result tickets are at very low prices. There are two opera houses, the State Opera House and Erkel Theater, with 70-80 operas in their repertoire. There is also the Municipal Operetta Theater, or the open-air performances during the summer on the Margitszigeti Szabadtferi Szinpad (Margaret Island) and the open-air stge at the Zoo. The State Puppet Theatre (N6pkoztarsas&g (it 69, Budapest VI) is internationally known. There are 11 other theaters in Budapest, and also many orchestras and string and wind ensembles. Tickets can be obtained in advance from the Budapest Tourist Board (VI, Roosevelt tfer 5), from Central Booking Agency for Theaters (VI, Nfepkozt&rsas&g (it 18), or from box offices. Foreign films are usually dubbed; films by Hungarian directors are internationally famous. There are nightclubs with dancing and floor shows at all major hotels. Also recommended are the Moulin Rouge (VI, Nagymez6 (it 17); Eden Bar (1, Sz6na t6r 7); Pipacs Bar (V, Aranykfeziit 5, overlooking the city from Gell6rt Hill); Fortuna Bar (Hess Andr&s t6r 4); and the famous Casanove Night Club (1, BattMnyi t6r 4).
SHOPPING
Stores in Budapest are open from 10-6 on weekdays, 10-3 on Saturdays— most are state-owned. Best buys are Herendi and Zsolnay china and porcelain sets, and a variety of arts and crafts—-embroidered slippers, woodwork, dolls, peasant blouses, table sets, and embroidered tablecloths. Large department stores are Szabadshg Aruhhz in Kalvin t6r, Luxus Aruhhz in Vbrosmarty t6r, and Corvin Nagyfuhai; in Blaha Lujza thr.