women should wear a veil or hat. It is customary to shake hands when introduced and introductions are made formally. During the evenings the old Spanish custom of chaperoning still exists for young unmarried girls.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . International telephone and cable service; All America Cables, Inc. (Tel. 3117); RCA serves the Republic, too (Tel. 3722). The airmail rate for postal cards and letters to the United States is 11 cents per half ounce.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the Dominican peso on par with the U. S. dollar. U. S. bills are fully acceptable both in shops and hotels. There are no currency restrictions.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . No passport or visa required, only a Tourist Card for which a charge of $2.10 is made. This card, which may be purchased at certain Pan American sales offices or airports, entitles the visitor to remain in the country for 15 days and is extendable for a further 45 days upon application to the Immigration Department.
DRUG STORES . . . All very modern with United States products available.
ELECTRIC CURRENT... The voltage in local hotels is 100 volts, a.c., 60 cycles.
FAUNA . . . Colorful tropical birds, flamingos, parrots, etc. Deer were imported as an experiment and are said to be breeding in the mountainous section of the Republic.
FLORA . . . Beautiful tropical flowers of all varieties. Banana, palm and coffee trees in abundance. Pineapples, avocados, other fruits. Sugar cane, of course, and tobacco.
FOOD . . . The food is naturally Spanish; salcocho, for instance, is a soup containing 18 ingredients, such as pork, yams, Spanish sausage, onions, pumpkins and tomatoes. Very fine indeed. There is the inevitable arroz con polio; casabe baked with cheese and boiled eggs; and pastelitos—pastries filled with chicken*or other meat. The hotels and restaurants serve international food, too.
GAMBLING . . . Nightly at the Jaragua, El Embajador and La Paz hotels and Voz Dominicana. There are weekly lotteries with prizes ranging from $25,000 to $50,000. Pari-mutuel betting at the modern race track Perla de las Antillas.
LANGUAGE . . . The official language is Spanish but English is spoken and readily understood by almost everybody. The typical greeting is ¿Como estamos? or ¿Que hay—Como estamos?
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Very good and available at several places in Ciudad Trujillo. Hotel Jaragua offers special services to guests. Prices vary depending on the type of clothing.
LIQUOR. . . The native drink is rum and can be obtained at very reasonable prices. Popular American drinks are also available at approximately the same prices as at home. The hotel bars are opened from 11:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. on Sunday through Friday