ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Several ultramodern luxury hotels have recently been built in Ciudad Trujillo. El Embajador (the Dominican Ambassador) overlooking the International Fairgrounds is completely air conditioned and completely elegant, has a luxurious swimming pool, golf course, tennis courts, casino and Embassy Club night clubs. Rates about $20. The Jaragua recently enlarged, is also luxurious, has a dining terrace, roof garden, Spanish patio, salt-water pool, clay tennis courts, massage room facilities, some air-conditioned rooms; offers floor shows, music for dancing, casino. Rates about $17. Both of these are now Intercontinental Hotels. Rates given are for double European Plan for winter (less after April 15). Add $9.00 per person for American Plan, $6.50 for Modified American (without lunch). Suites are also available. Other Ciudad Trujillo hotels include the attractive Gazcué on Bolivar Avenue, from $14, and the Comercial (downtown), from $12. Hotels in the interior are shown under WHERE TO GO----SIGHTSEEING.
ARTS . . . The magnificent new National Gallery of Fine Arts situated on Calle Máximo Gomez in the capital shows painting, sculpture and ceramics by Dominican and foreign artists. Paintings and sculptures are available for purchase.
BALLET . . . There is an Academy of Ballet which occasionally presents public shows at the local theaters.
BANKS ... In Ciudad Trujillo the Royal Bank of Canada, Dominican Reserve Bank, Bank of Nova Scotia, Agricultural and Credit Bank of the Dominican Republic, the Central Bank, Bank of Credit and Savings. Working hours are from 8:00 to 12:30 Monday through Friday, except for one hour Friday afternoons.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . January 1, New Year; January 6, Three Kings; January 21, La Altagracia’s Day; January 26, Duarte Day; February 27, Independence Day; June 29, Saint Peter and Paul; March 19, Saint Joseph; May 1, Labor Day; August 15, Crowning of our Lady of Altagracia; August 16, Presidential Oath of Office; September 24, Our Lady of Las Mercedes; October 12, Columbus Day; October 24, United Nations Day; November 1, All Saints Day; December 8, Immaculate Conception Day; December 25, Nativity.
CIGARETTES . . .Visitors are permitted to bring in 2 cartons of cigarettes duty free. Locally manufactured cigarettes are also available, the most popular being Hollywood, Cremas and Benefactor.
CLIMATE. . . Climate is warm and tropical, but seldom uncomfortable. The cool season between November and March is particularly pleasant with warm sunny days and cool evenings.
CLUBS. . . The Santo Domingo Country Club and La Voz Dominicana (luxuriously appointed and air conditioned) offer facilities for tourists; Club #16 de Mayo, Casino del Caribe, Golfito Tennis Club. Also Rotary.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... It is
customary for a jacket and tie to be worn in most of the hotels after 6:00 p.m. The wearing of shorts and beach-type wear is discouraged in the downtown area. When visiting local churches,