apparel. A visit to the Mercado Modelo (Model Market) should be included on shopping expeditions. This market, unlike many in Latin America, is an excellent example of modern design and cleanliness. Working hours are from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon, and from 2:00 to 6:00 p.m., daily including Sunday.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing at the Pearl of the Antilles track, baseball from April through September; cockfighting, polo from February through March. A new, modern baseball stadium is located within ten minutes’ taxi ride from all the hotels. Dominicans are mad about baseball and have their own league that’s outstanding.
SPORTS . . . The Santo Domingo Country Club and Ambassador Hotel each have an interesting golf course and a pool. Privileges are extended to visitors. Tennis courts are available at the Hotels Gazcue and Jaragua. Beach swimming is excellent at Boca Chica. Small sailing boats may be hired. Riding horses are available, too. The Hotel Hamaca, on the interesting island La Matica, has boats and water skis.
THEATERS . . . Stage shows and TV shows are shown at La Voz Dominicana Radio and Television theater from 5:00 to 10:00 p.m. daily including Sunday.
TIME . . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . The usual 10 to 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are cars for hire with or without chauffeurs. The highways are excellent. There are taxis.
WATER . . . With the emphasis on Public Health in this country, it is sure to be drinkable. Hotels serve bottled water on request.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tortoise-shell boxes and accessories, embroideries, woven baskets. Handicrafts of local mahogany, green ebony, Dominican oak, etc., at Artes Dominicanas.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Ciudad Trujillo and other coastal cities are warm. You will need summer clothes, beach things; dinner clothes at the top hotels. The mountain resorts of Constanza and Jarabacoa are much cooler, so take topcoats and a warm dress or two. Men will need linen or cotton suits, medium-weight jackets and slacks for the hills, beach clothes and summer dinner clothes.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Ciudad Trujillo . . . The first thing you notice is the cleanliness, the spotlessness of the city. This is due to the fact that the city has been almost completely rebuilt since the hurricane of 1930 which practically destroyed it, and partly because the Government of Trujillo has concentrated on civic improvements. Don’t miss the cathedral which is the Basilica of Santa Maria la Menor, which has some wonderful carvings, a treasure room and the Columbus Cross. In the heart of the original city of Santo Domingo are the ruins of Alcazar de Colon, built by Don Diego, Columbus’ son, which are being reconstructed. The Tower of Homage, the oldest stone fortress in the Americas, is now a prison which may be seen only from the outside. Also on the outskirts of the capital on a brand new campus is the University of Santo Domingo, the oldest university in this hemisphere. It dates back to 1538. The new National Capitol cannot be