and from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Saturday, with unlimited extension during fiestas.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Most hospitals have English-speaking doctors on their staffs. Doctors are very competent. Practically all of them speak English fluently. The hospitals in Ciudad Trujillo are among the most modern and best equipped of the Antilles. The Red Cross offers its services in case of emergencies.
MOTION PICTURES ... In the capital, there are several motion picture theaters showing current American, Mexican and European films. The Olimpia, Santome, Elite, La Voz Dominicana, Leonor and Rialto are air conditioned. English-language films carry Spanish subtitles.
MUSIC . . . There is the National Symphony Orchestra, which presents a series of concerts each year. Native music’is lovely. The national dance is the merengue.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ...El Embajador, Jaragua and La Paz hotels all have night clubs with floor shows and music for dancing. The air-conditioned Voz Dominicana also offers good music for dancing.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Tourists can buy most any kind of films in Ciudad Trujillo, as well as cameras and photographic equipment. Prices are a little more expensive than at home. There are facilities for film developing. It takes around 3 days to do a good job. The Santo Domingo Gift Shop, Farmacia Esmeralda are among the places where photo equipment and films may be purchased. Good spots for taking pictures are the ruins, the Cathedral, the Altar de la Patria and the beaches.
RELIGION . . . The religion is Roman Catholic. There is, however, an Episcopal Church where English is spoken, located on Independence Avenue in Ciudad Trujillo. Catholic churches offer Mass each day from 5:30 through 7:30 a.m. On Sundays, Mass is said at the Convento Dominico from 6:30 a.m. through 8:30 a.m.; last Mass at 11:00 a.m. Cathedral services begin at 6:30 a.m. with High Mass celebrated at 9:00 a.m. Last Mass at 12:00 noon.
RESTAURANTS . . . Aside from the good, new hotel restaurants, there are many restaurants where European, American, Chinese and native food is served. Among the best known in Ciudad Trujillo are Mario, an air-conditioned Chinese restaurant; and the Cremita, El Dragon is a modern Chinese-American restaurant, air conditioned. Try the Vesubio for Italian specialties. All of these restaurants are located within five minutes’ taxi ride from any of the hotels.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The main shopping street in Ciudad Trujillo is Calle el Conde. Some of the principal stores are La Opera, Cerame, Miss America shop, El Palacio, La Puenta del Sol-Lopez de Ars, Dragon de Oro (specializing in Chinese products), Artes Dominicanas handicraft shops at Arzobispo Nouel 16 and at the airport. There are two Freeport stores located on the International Fair Grounds. Tax and duty free prices on liquors, perfumes, cameras, watches, glass and chinaware, jewelry and miscellaneous wearing