m
r r

5
5&V
Tourists visit Cathedral Ciudad, the famous old cathedral where the remains of Columbus are buried.
7*'
western part of the city. Organized tours in modern limousines with English-speaking guides vary from $4.50 for the half-day city tour to $6.50 for tours to San Cristobal and Boca Chica. The Permanent International Fair has many outstanding events and is a popular sightseeing attraction with visitors.
San Crisfobal is about 18 miles from the capital, it is reached by the Sanchez Highway, along which are the San Geronimo Fort and the Santo Domingo Country Club. The city is the birthplace of President Trujillo, its primary claim to fame. Here is La Toma, the President’s plantation. There are two wonderful bathing pools, one for the President and his guests and the other for the public. The Hotel San Cristobal is luxurious. Rates are about $11 double.
Boca Chica . . . Driving east along the coast road, tourists may visit Boca Chica, .an attractive beach resort about 45 minutes from the capital. A modern hotel, the Hamaca, has been opened. Superior swimming and sailing. Rates are $12 single and $20 double (A. P.).
The interior of the Dominican Republic is just beginning to be exploited as a tourists’ paradise. Roads are good. The coffee and sugar plantations, the rice paddies and the tobacco farms are interesting to see. At Jarabacoa is the Hotel Montana, high in the Cordillera Central. Rooms facing the valley have superlative views. Rates are from $12 single to $20 double. There are special off-season rates and reductions for stays of a week or longer. There is a casino here, a dance floor, a children’s playground. The Hotel Maguana at San Juan is in the center of the ancient Carib Indian civilization. Rates at the Maguana start at $5 a day. This is off the beaten track. The hill resorts are cool.
Santiago ... 45 minutes by plane from Ciudad or 3 hours by car is Santiago, the second city of the Republic and capital of the fertile valley of Ciba, in the heart of the Dominican agricultural region. The brand new Hotel Matum is splendidly equipped for American tourists. The Nueva Suiza in the mountains is also new.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION... The Director General of Tourism, Ciudad Trujillo; Dominican Republic Tourist Office, Room 516 Chrysler Building, New York; The Pan American office at Edificio Copello, El Conde St. (Tel. 2515 and 3269). Other useful local telephone numbers are: U.S. Embassy, 3121; Immigration Department, 2487; Red Cross ambulance service, 2682.