CURRAN, St. Louis
ISSUED BY
PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, INC.
(For use on!y in connection with railroad ticket to Miami, Fla.)
(Via........-....................ACL, FEC)
WHEN OFFICIALLY STAMPED
GOOD FOR ONE PASSAGE TO
DESTINATION
CONTRACT:
It. is agreed between the Passenger and Pan American Airways, Inc., herein called the Company, that:
1.	The Company is a private carrier and has not held itself out as, and is not, a common carrier of passengers or baggage.
2.	This ticket is valid only for the flight, day and person specified hereon-. Passengers may cancel this reservation by formally notifying Company of such intention five days previous to date of flight. Failing to do this, or if the passenger does not arrive or arrives too late for the flight, the tare paid will be retained by the Company if the space reserved remains unsold.
3.	The Company may cancel any flight and may refuse to carry any Passenger on any flight. In case of such cancellation or refusal, unless such refusal is due to the passenger’s being under the influence of drink or drug, suffering from contagious or infectious disease, or being of unsound mind, the Company will refund to the Passenger the fare paid, but it shall be under no other liability with respect to such cancellation or refusal.
4.	In the event that the flight is delayed or is not completed, whether or not due to the negligence of the Company or its servants, the Company shall be under no liability for such delay or such failure to complete the flight, except to refund to the Passenger, where the flight is not complete, the fare paid for the unflown mileage.
5.	This ticket is a liinited liability t icket. The Company’s liability for injury to passengers or baggage shall be limited to injuries caused by the proven negligence of itself or its servants. The maximum amount for which the Company or its servants shall in any event be liable to the Passenger, or to his or her representative, on account of the personal injury or death of the Passenger caused in any manner during, or arising out of, the (light: or any incident thereof, whether or not due to the negligence of the Company or its servants, shall be the sum of $40,000, and the Passenger for himself or herself and his or her representative hereby releases and surrenders all claims or causes of action for amounts in excess of said sum. The Comjiany's liability for injury or loss of baggage or personal effects of the Passenger is limited to $100, at not exceeding which sum the baggage and personal effects of the Passenger are hereby valued, unless a higher value is stited and an extra charge paid by the Passenger at the air port of departure.
6.	An extra charge will be made for baggage in excess of 30 pounds free allowance for each Passenger, Baggage in excess of 30 pounds will be carried only when the capacity of planes permits. The following may not be taken on the flight as baggage or otherwise:
(a)	Things, the carriage of which under the circumstances
of the flight, would be contrary to the laws of any country, flotyn over;	-	,4
(b)	Tilings which are liable to endanger the airplane,"
passengers or baggage, things which may cause annoyance,, to other passengers, and things not suitable for transport ; * | by airplane;	-
(c)	hive stock, except by special arrangement.
7.	The Passenger must be in possession of a regular) ■ passport with proper visas, where the same are required by 1 the law’s of any country flown over. The Passenger must; arrive at the airport of departure early enough before the, scheduled time of deparure to enable passport inspection, and baggage customs to be completed. This ticket is transferable only w'ith the approval of the Company and any. transferee shall.be subject to the terms and conditions of. this contract as fully as if be or she lias signed this ticket as, Passenger.
8.	The Passenger will comply with all orders given by . officers of the Company respecting the flight and shall be? liable for any damage resulting from failure to comply« with such orders.
9.	Tlie validity and interpretation of this contract shall be governed by the lawr of the .State of New York, and all. suits against the Company arising out of the flight or any, incident thereof shall be brought in that State.
10.	The Company has taken every precaution to guard
against accident. As provided above, the Company’s liar-bility is limited to accidents, caused by its owr. negligence and to the sum of $40,000 per passenger. The price of this ticket has been fixed with reference to that limitation of liability.	,	...
Pan American Airways, Inc., a private carrier agrees, to provide aerial passage for the undeijj rl +ht*tv rfWurirfs of his nrW
w