CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS... Medicines for private use,
2	quart bottles of liquor or wine, reasonable quantities of Sim, 400 cigarettes or 100 cigars or 1 pound of pipe tobacco may be brought in duty free. Firearms cannot pass customs without special permission. You are allowed to bring in 6,000 kronor. Your passport is all that is necessary to enter Sweden. If you wish to stay for more than
3	months, you will have to get a special permit from the alien authorities. However, this is a mere formality and the permit is very easy to obtain. Bring your driver’s license if you wish to hire a car.
DRUGSTORES . . . No drugstores exist, in the American sense of the word. However, there are restaurants of the cafeteria type (often called “milk bars”) everywhere, and there are pastry shops, called Konditori, where you can have coffee, tea, sandwiches and delicious pastry. Cigarettes are bought in tobacco shops or from automats. Drugs and medicines can be had at pharmacies, called Apotefc.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... The voltage in most places in Sweden, including Stockholm, is 220 a.c., although 110 and 380 voltages are also used, particularly in the provinces. Alternating current is the dominating type. The plugs and outlets used in Sweden are different from the ones in the United States, so bring along ai inset of the type that is screwed into a standard lamp socket.
FAUNA . . . Sweden stretches from the S.'S, paraur! in the south to the 69th in the north—as does Alaska. Sr . k. fauna, therefore, is very much the same as that of Alaska and Canada. The zoo at the*, above-mentioned Skansen outdoor museum cf'ais h,i excellent exhibit of Sweden’s wild life. There are reindeer (domesticated by the Lapps), moose, bear, wolf, capercailzie, black cock uiizelhen, ptarmigan, woodcock, crane, wild goose.
FLORA... Birch, mountain birch, juniper • ree, pin:, arctic” raspberry, wild strawberry and raspberry, cloudberry, bilberry, iingon-berry.	.»*«"	■<	. ;
FOOD ... The great Smorgasbord tables have even surpassed the level of their , >yi lavishness. There are deliciou tressed meats, sausage" sefVetl hot md cold, salad fish dishes and innumerable vegetable ’-dishphJ Remember when » eii’re earing it ♦’ at this is merely a iW. eourse and the main meal is . follow. Snaps is drunk with this p the meal. The Swedish art famous for their dairy products and fine fish dishes. Be sure to eat crayfish in August. Swedish pastries are rich and delicio ■: Monxfesr coffee ab-1 rob; will be served in your room at the hotel—larger breakfasts can be had in the dining room. Food in self-sufficient Sw&k-u |sf rlentifm Mealtimes are about like those at home. Dinner is served be.sx-.aAg at 5 r.M.
GAMBLING ... Gambling casinos Arfi not allowed in Sweden. Horse racing every Saturday and .Sunday . Racetracks in Stockholm and also in Gothenburg, Malmo, Karlstad Oavle and Ostersund. Only pari-mutuel betting.