evening are correct for men. Rugged, simple clothes are worn in the mountains. The- Swedish are conservative about clothes, so wear conventional outfits for active sports, except at the beach.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING .. .
Stockholm ... Stockholm is one of the loveliest cities in the world. The architecture is a perfect blend .of centuries of good taste. Beautiful, clean modern buildings are in perfect harmony with 17th-century baroque. It’s a good idea to take a boat ride through the waterways and around the islands of the city for your first bout of sightseeing. You’ll get a fine over-all impression of this charming city. The Town Hall is Stockholm’s trademark and one of the most beautiful buildings in Europe. The medieval section of town is called the “City between the Fridges.” Here you’ll find quaintly twisting little streets lined with artists’ studios and curious little shops; the old church of St. Gertrud chimes the hours. Riddarholm Church is the burial place of many of Sweden’s kings and queens. See the wonderful art collection at the Waldemarsudde, mentioned under arts. Take_ a night boat ride to Djurgarden. Beautiful parks and magnificent buildings are found in this region. A landau ride by moonlight is wonderfully romantic here. Take a day to see Drottningholm Palace, three-quarters of an hour from the center of town by a little lake steamer. There is a fine inn here with atmosphere and good food. The palace, breath-takingly lovely, has been called the Swedish Versailles. There are many excellently planned tours of various parts of the city; private guides are available. Millesg&rden on the island of Lidingo (25 minutes by tramway from the center of Stockholm) is the home of the famous sculptor Carl Milles. It is surrounded by a charming terraced garden and contains a rich and unique collection of antique sculptures and works by the artist. Vasa, the 17th-century man-of-war salvaged from Stockholm harbor, is now a special museum on Djurgarden Island.
Side Trips . . . Recently a tour has been organized with special consideration for guests from America: the Sunlit Nights Land Cruise of the Swedish State Railways, 8 days aboard a specia? ’yxury train. It takes you to the fabulous region of the Midnight Su- You travel north from Stockholm in easy stages, visiting the romar... province of Dalecarlia, to beyond the Arctic Circle ind back, • ;ning to visit the colorful, nomadic Lapps and the;, r eindeer -*.« -ia# "‘..¿r falls, open-pit iron mines. For 4 days of t$e trip you c. under the Midnight Sun, and never see darkness. 1 nery are also N? Anight Sun plane excursions from Stockholm.
Uppsala is about 40 miles north .if Stockho’n (50 minutes by train). In nearby Old Uppsala there are burial momula of ancient ¡•chieftains. The University was founded m the 15 th cchfury. The ^Renaissance Castle and Cathedral a>e very lovely and inteW: ting historically. Stay at the Gillet, or at the Sta ishot.ellet for about $5 75 a night. Both have excellent restaurants.
Inquire about the excellent Nils Heigersson trip all over Swede?
Dalecarlia ... Heading northwest you come to the » harming province of Dalecarlia. Ratt‘”'L cn Lake Siljan is the central ¡xunt for