THEATERS... The Royal Dramatic Theater season is from September to June. As part of the Stockholm Festival, special performances are offered at the beginning of June. The China Variety Revue Theater has a Continental revue program from April to September. The Drottningholm Court Theater, established in the 18th century by King Gustav III and preserved exactly in its original form, is unique, charming and definitely worth seeing. Rococo operas are performed during the Stockholm Festival in the beginning of June, and also later during the summer. The Skansens Friluftsteater is a beautiful open-air theater in the Skansen, where Shakespearean plays are presented in summer. There is also an English-language theater open in summer. In Uppsala, the Uppsala Castle Theater is outstanding. Ticket prices at all these theaters are moderate, ranging from $1 to $3.
TIME... Six hours later than U. S. Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Restaurants and hotels have a service charge of 10 to 15%. Tip porters 1 krona per bag, and give 50 ore for most small services. Hat-check girls and washroom attendants pet 50 ore. Follow the 10 to 15% rule when tipping cab drivers, beauticians and barbers.
TRANSPORTATION ... The transportation system in Stockholm includes buses, trams and a brand-new subway. Bus fare from the airport into Stockholm is kr. 6. Taxi fares are reasonable and cabs can be ordered by telephone. Longer trips may be made by bus, train, or air. Cars for long trips may also be hired with or without a chauffeur. The Swedish State Railways trains are regarded as the best and the most modern in Europe. They offer two classes, but most people go second class, which offers the same standard as the American railroad coaches.
WATER... The water is safe to drink in every town in Sweden. Bottled water may be necessary on prolonged hiking trips and fishing expeditions. Inquire at the local village.
WHAT TO BUY .., Glass and crystal are your best buys. Pottery, pewter and sPverware are excellent. Cutlery made of famous Swedish steel and st. ¿nless tableware are quite reasonable and should be high on your UstP English and Swedish textiles are of very fine quality. Modern ’roture is tempting, too. Smaller pieces can be dismantled fp shr it There arc many bargains to be had in various native hand vts. Shipment ' bulky articles can easily be arranged.
Yc. ,AT TO WEATI . . . Stockholm winters are only a little ;ool than in neríhl'ástern U.S. Bring woolens and tweeds. Summer .feu-períiiures a;e normally very comfortable, with averages around 60 d/sgreUs (even far north); high humidity is unknown in Sweden. Eight hours of sufifihine per day is the average during th summer months You can leave the lightest summer clothes at home but bring you ■ topcoat as the nights may be chilly. Raincoats are a must. Oports clothes ir (he country and for general sightseeing wear arc correct. Simph black dresses or dressy suits will be all you need in Stockholm. Formal clothes are rarely worn except at gala openings and banquets and wh dancing in first-class restaurants. Flannels and sports jackets during .; c ¡ay and business suits in the