situated opposite the Royal Palace. Rates here begin at about $9 single, $15 double with bath. Other first-class and very popular hotels with somewhat lower rates are Stockholm, Gillet, Continental, Mal-men, Carlton, Foresta (has heated outdoor pool), Apollon,a "trand, Palace and Bromma and the resort hotel Grand Hotel Cdltsj >iden. Most hotels add a 15% service charge, but prices are still low«. *han in the United States. You can get a very gooa single room for less than $4 in student hotels such as Domus and Serum, open to tourists in summer. It is advisable to make your reservations in advance, especially during the summer months. Hotels in other areas are listed under where to go.
ARTS . .. The Vasa, submerged in Stockholm harbor for 300 years, has become the city’s newest museum. The National Museum and the Modern Museum have excellent collections of Swedish and foreign paintings. The Stockholm City Museum contains exhibits illustrating the history of the city from the Stone Age until the pre'sent time. The unique Skansen, an outdoor museum beautifully situated on a hilltop, has exhibits showing life and work in Sweden centuries ago, as we as houses and farms of that time. At Skansen, you will find bea ,i\ • parks, excellent restaurants and a large zoe. The home of Carl Mmeb, the famous sculptor, beautifully situated on the Island of I idingo near Stockholm, has been transformed into an outstanding ntuseurn, which contains antique sculptures as wellJas Mill;. , dwn wo--vi Vdaidemar-sudde, formerly the home of the ig*e Prince\Eugen, ccntam? a tine collection of the works of the “Painter Prince ’ c 1 is contemporaries. Parts of the Royal Palace, the Droit vieghbir y e and the Pa* Ilion of Gustavus III at Haga can also oe men.
Also well worth seeing are th - Histoi *S: Munutm, remarkable for its excellent display techniqiJA the-,Nordic <Must cm with the Royal Armory, the National Maiiuni; Mat:,-urn, th-* Technological Museum and the Museum of Nctural ’(‘..dory.
BALLET Phe famous Roys». ¡Optra i. •> erfi h th«* Royal Opera i«i Stockholm In .i-ui. , u.e. Royal Gy «a ialle. giver performances as ...art of the Stockholm Fesii cJ.
BANKS . . Banks connected with the larger American bonks are found in Stockholm end-other principal Cities. Currency may be exchanged at Stockhot it s Airport from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m.
CALENDAR Ok iciOLlDA i S ... Legal holiday« are January 1 and A Good Friday; Easter Sunday; Easter Monday.. May 1, L&hbt Day; Ascension Day (40 days afro" Easter-Sunday) Whitsu. Say (50 days after Easier Sunday), Whitmor-day; Mics .'mmt Day (! > hirday following June 20); Ail Saints Day ‘Saturday .-ares Noveir.b.v 1), December 25 and 26. Easter Eve, Witvrsun Eve, Midstt$uner t:,va .and Chrismas J-y.e are bank holidays. St, * are no, tally open h&g&sen 9 a.v:. and 6 p.m. on weekdays and >•	. en 9 a.k*. and 4 p.Kf. dniSat-
urday andbrnk holidays, though it:.< < 1 thefo close at 3 or?. A .r-days during the summer. Particularly colorful are the Mid-summ*r had Christmas celebrations. Other interesting events—which oo not r.av. the character of legal holidays—take place on April 30, Walpus^is. Night; June 6, Swedish Flag Day—Sweden's National Commetrora-