excursions in this region. Many of Sweden’s outstanding artists and poets have come from Dalecarlia. It is a great ski center, and world champions belong to its clubs. Good accommodations and instruction are available and the skiing is wonderful. Summer is equally lovely in this region. See “The Road to Heaven,” an open-air allegorical play performed at the village of Leksand each July. Hiking and mountain climbing are popular. There are Youth Hostels throughout the region as well as quaint inns. Gay festivals full of native costumes and music are a feature of Dalecarlia.
Lapland . . . The northernmost part of Sweden is the unspoiled arctic region of Lapland. Arctic flora, mountain peaks shimmering in the sun and dazzling mountain lakes make Lapland serenely and gloriously beautiful. This is truly the Land of the Midnight Sun. The northern lights are here in all their blazing glory. The Swedish Touring Club has done much to enable the tourist to see this province. Trails have been cut through the forests, bridges and paths have been made, and much money has gone into building railroads through the rugged terrain. Boating facilities are available on the mountain lakes, fishing is popular, and hikers and climbers will find endless attractions here. The culture of the primitive Lapps is much as it has been for centuries. The Swedish government has done a great deal to protect these people against exploitation. Riksgransen is the best base of operations for seeing Lapland. Guides, accommodations and tourist information are available. The Laplandia is the best place to stay and to eat. Rates begin at $4.50. A comfortable way to see this area for about $150 is to take an all-inclusive North Cape tour, 10 days by de luxe bus, starting at LuleS.
Sk&ne... Sk&ne, the southernmost part of Sweden, is a fertile farm area wi h rolling plains and beechwood-clad ridges. It is sometimes known as the Chateau Country because of its hundreds of castles and fine mansions, among them Glimmingehus and Trolleholm. Malmo is the third largest town in the country. It is a busy modern port. The modern architecture in the city is of the best. Lund is an old uriver«ity town, also the site of Scandinavia’s finest Romanesque cath rai, rtalsingborg (opposite Denmark’s Helsingpr) is the main port of entry for motorists. Nearby Bastad is one of the best resorts. Malmo is 2 hours by air from Stockholm, 6 hours by train.
Goneiibsug ... Sweden’s second city is Gothenburg. It is a vital po.t town and under 2 hours by air from Stockholm. There are theaters, a ..ne shopping district, modern housing developments and beautiful prrks Fishing, sailing and boating are all popular. So are goF and tennis, ihc regattas at nearby Marstrand are world famous. From Gcthenbvrg to Stockholm, or vice versa, one can travel vi~ the famous Overland Waterway (Gbta Kanal), a 3-day trip. The ne Park Avenue Hotel is first class. Raies begin at $8 a day. The Palace and the Eggers are also recommended. Average rates are $6.
VIsby . • The Isle of Gotland in the Baltic Sea should be a must ■ t your list. > :s capital. Visby, is ■ <e only walled city in northern