here are some of the best: the Operakaliaren, one of Europe’s great restaurants; the Riche, serving primarily French food, is first class; Stallmdstargarden is a must. Den Gyldene Freden is typically Swedish and Berns is a big restaurant with floor shows and excellent French and Chinese cuisines. Hamburger Bors, Djurg&rdsbrunns Wdrdshus, Maritim, La Ronde, Strand’s Roof Terrace, Bacchi Wapen, Stortorg-skdllaren and Tre Remmare are all first class. The dining rooms of most hotels have very fine food, especially the swank Grand Hotel Restaurant. You can eat elegantly and superbly for $15 a day in Stockholm, you can eat well for half that figure, and you can eat quite adequately for only $4 a day. Expensive dinners start at around $4, but a very satisfying meal can be had for as little as $1.50. Milk bars serve good, inexpensive, lunch'Counter food. Wine and beer restaurants are good, too.
SHOPS \ND STORES... In Stockholm: K. A. Anderson for fine jewelry; Atelier Borgila for unique, modern silverware; Fritzes for books; try Svenskt Tenn for pottery and textiles; note Sormans, Nordiska Kristallmapasinet and Svenskt Glas for glass; Williams, Leja and Valdy’s are fine exclusive women’s apparel shops; Bastman’s for sporting equipment; Palmgren’s for luggage and exquisite leather goods; Nordiska Kompaniet (NK) is the largest department store (see their modern furniture); Morris and Stroms are excellent men’s shops. There are numerous exhibitions and shops that specialize in ceramics, pottery, textiles and handicraft products; the main shopping district in Stockholm consists of Kungsgatan, Drottninggatan, Hamngatan and adjacent streets. For bargains in antiques, try the Old Town.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... Racing is very popular in and around Stockholm. The season begins in May and lasts through November. Taby is the principal track. Trotting races are held at the Stockholm Trotting Club during most of the year. Soccer, field and track events are followed with enthusiasm. Athletic and gymnastic exhibitions are held all year around at Stockholm’s rna.'y gymnasiums. Yachting races and tennis matches enjoy seasonal popularity.
SFORTS... Sweden is a sportsman’s paradise. The Swedes are an athletic, outdoor people, and their facilities are of the finest. The lakes and mountain streams offer excellent fishing. Salmon and salmon trout, pike and perch are in abundance. There is t; /ta and other big-game fishing on the west coast. Golf is nationally popr’^r. There are good courses throughout the country; Krvinge, Diurshoim, Dtot-tningholm, Lidingo and Saltsjobaden are the b;s- near Stockholm. The courses and clubhouses are open to tourists. Good tennis courts are found all over Sweden. Stockholm has indoc courts Tor year-round play. Yachting is popular and fashionable in the Stockholm, archipelago. Sailing and swimming are favorite summer sports, ¿cats can be rented at Saltsjobaden’s Grand Hotel and at N. K, Kristens©» “Marina” harbor. The beaches on »he archipelago are lovely. The mountains in the north are a hiker’s ptradise; guides are’: available. The end of summer is the best time of year, As .in id?. Scandinavian countries, nearly everybody skis in Sweden, Accommodations, skis and guides are available at moderate rates Other wittier sports include skating, tobagganing and curling. There are exhibition Seating matches.