tion Day; and December 13, Day of St. Lucia.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO ... All brands of American cigarettes and tobacco can be obtained in Sweden, though the prices are high due to heavy taxation. American cigarettes cost about $1 a pack. Local cigarette brands—the best of which compare favorably with American brands—begin at 3.50 kroner a pack. Cigars—local as well as a rich selection of foreign brands—are available at about the same prices as in the United States.
CLIMATE ... Misconceptions about the climate in Sweden are common, perhaps due to the country’s proximity to the Arctic Circle. However, the climate in southern and central Sweden is very much the same as in New England; the winter on Sweden’s west coast is milder than the New York winter. The summer is pleasantly warm and the discomforts of high humidity are unknown. The long hours of daylight during the late spring and summer add to the pleasure. The midnight sun can be seen north of the Arctic Circle from early June to the middle of July. Although the period from June 1 to September 1 is the time most tourists visit Sweden, May and particularly September, which generally is sunny and dry, would also be excellent choices,
CLUBS ... Lions International Club (the European Host Club); Rotary International; thf Royal Automobile Club and the Swedish Automobile Associati' r. American Club of Stockholm; Junior Chamber of Commev' e Inte suonai.
COMMON COY »‘.TESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS ... If you
are invited to din? ài Svi home of Swedish friends, arrive promptly AtiC ready to eat. There is generally no cocktail hour. Much formal toasting goeó on at :: Swedish dinner party. Never toast your hostess if there are more than Vx at the party, because she is obliged to toast oVich gentleman, bùi ithr.t the other ladies. If you are the guest of honor, aakr a >;.st of try. at the end of the meal. In restaurants in the bigger citLs you ha* w to wear a tie, and when dancing, formal dinner jackets may be required at some first-class restaurants, except during the summer. You may have heard the 5 vndes described as rather formal, but there is a definite trend away rrc.m formal manners, and in sorr'■ respects, e.g., clothing requirement ,fpr he beach, they are anything but formal. If ;• ou want detailed informi tio : on the subject, write t i the Swedish N t tonai Travel Office ,Iqv- the cqoklet How to Feel at Home Sweet-;	,	.... , , .
UCHtlMUNVCATIC' S . . . From 10 A.M-. t•..>	.a 3-minute
phene call to -he Ufi. costs kr. (12:25; from 10 •t-.m. to 10 a.m., kr. 46:65. A i0-word cablegram .to the States cost kr. 17:65, and you can send your cables ov ;r the fcoy.i telephone. Letters of 5 grams (.17 ounce' ) are sent via airmail fc	o*?. to the United States, postcards
for 35 óre; international airlT'b' s cost 50 ore.
CURRENCY .. .The rnonet<ry unit is the krona (plural kronor), which is divided irto IOC ore. There are banknotes for 5, 10, 50, 100, 1,000 and 10,000 kronor. According to the official rate of exchange, you get approximately 5:18 kroner for your dollar.