LANGUAGE ... Swedish is the official language. English is spoken and understood by most people, especially in the cities. How do you do and good-bye in Swedish are goddag and adjo. Thank you, which is used on every occasion, is tack sd mycket or tack, tack.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . .. Cleaning and laundry facilities are good everywhere and of high quality, but they are more expensive than in the States—a suit costs about $3 and generally takes a few days. If you want it quicker there will be an additional fee. You will find dry-cleaning shops everywhere.
LIQUOR ... All American drinks and cocktails are available. Cocktails cost about $1, snaps about 60?. Liquor is not served in restaurants before noon. Minimum legal age for drinkers is IS.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... Stockholm and most of Sweden have excellent doctors, dentists and modern medical facilities. Most doctors speak English. Ask at your hotel, should you need a doctor.
MOTION PICTURES ... Stockholm has about 130 theaters. American pictures with their original sound track are the most popular. French, British and Swedish films are also shown. See the daily paper for times, programs and theaters.
MUSIC ... The Royal Opera in Stockholm, one of the oldest opera houses in the world, is famous for its high artistic standards. The season is from August to June. Concerts are given at the Stockholm Concert Hall from September to May. Permanent symphony orchestras outside of Stockholm are found in Gothenburg, Malmo, Halsingborg, Norrkoping and Gavle. The Stockholm Festival, in June, offers, outstanding opera performances and concerts. The concert repertory in Sweden includes internationally known works as well as the works of modern and classic Swedish composers. Concert halls are closed in the summer, but there are open-air concerts given in the parks, n< ably the Skansen in Stockholm.
MLLiT CMJBS AND CABARETS .. . Many restaurants are open until 3 a.m. and feature floor shows. Among the best in Stockholm are: Ambassadrur, Bacchi Vapen, Hamburger Bors, Strand Hotel. Swedish jazz is exceptionally good, and the best places to hear it are the Nalen dance paiae on Regeringsgatan in Stockholm (open winter only), and the jar* istiurant Gyllene Cirkeln.
PHOTOGRAPHY . .. Every kind of photo equipment is available. A color-movie film ' 8 mm., costs about $5. Developing takes about a week for ordinary- pictures, but can be rushed. The best-known shops, which do an Excellent job, are: Hasselblads Fotografiska AB, Hamngatan 16; Nemens Foto AB, Kungsgatan 19; and Molanders, Regeringsgatan 13,'Min Stockholm.
RELIGION ., Sweden is >; Protestant country. The State Church, of which everyone is a i,«ember by birth, is Lutheran. There are Catholic, Methodist, Episcopal, Christian Science churches and Jewish synagogues in £?cekho!m and elsewhere.
RESTAURANTS r. There is a lot of superb eating to be done in Stockholm. 'Everyone will soon fj>?d his favorite spot to eat, but