' «\
nom ,■ jUfítVAVc
“---- * « «* '
Fifing Clipper
-seek
^ Survey the Situation List any relatives and friends, business and professional acquaintances, members of your school or club, church, service or college organization who might be interested in world air travel. What special interests do they share? Would they prefer a short trip — say, to Bermuda, Nassau or Mexico, to Guatemala, the West Indies or Alaska? Or a more extensive one — say through Europe or the Pacific, ‘ ‘Down Under’ ’, the Orient, or round the world, Flying-Clipper-style? Will you visit many or only a few countries? And how about ex-service personnel and the areas where they served?
Decide the scope and purpose of your trip and how long it will take. Then go on to Step 2.
^ Here’s Help You May Need If you wish, make —your own arrangements, booking passage direct with Pan American World Airways. Or take your travel plans to an authorized Travel Agent. His services won’t increase the cost since he is re-
G. T A


•*	« ,,'v
Travel Group
is tasy to Organize when you take	j
munerated through commissions from the airline, hotels, sight-seeing companies, etc.
And he can help you with bookings for your Clipper space and hotel reservations . . . arranging ground transportation and all-important sight-seeing trips, etc. He’s especially helpful on passports, visas, health regulations, immigration and customs . . . and almost indispensable if you’re planning an extended itinerary with many stopovers. He may even have an “all expense’’ tour ideally suited to your particular group.
Any PAA sales office will be glad to furnish names and addresses of local travel agents . . . also information on excursion rates, where applicable, to save your prospects sometimes as much as two-thirds of the one-way passage.
Get the basic facts, make your decision and then take Step 3.
^Plan Your Itinerary Your travel agent or a PAA Sales Representative will assist you with timetables, fare schedules and up-to-date reference material to help you decide how to go and to determine just how much it will cost.
He’ll advise you on preparing a prospectus, too. Detailed itineraries and stories of trips do so much to arouse the urge to travel. He’ll have pertinent information ranging from tourist cards to police requirements. For some countries require “good character’’ certificates of visitors.
"Telling” Your Prospects is "Selling” Approach the people selected in Step 1. Since you’ve tailored the trip for them — interested people who can afford to go — the tour should sell itself.
You must publish an announcement including itin-
You'll go for the Land of the Gauchos where Rio’s romantic and life is gay.
lWj
/
Watch history come to life in Great Britain and see unspoiled Ireland from jaunting car.

erary and travel arrangements. Before you do, have your travel agent or PAA office check it. Then make copies for distribution, printing or duplicating them by some other process. Ask for folders, movies, pictures, posters, cuts and other aids. Showing the movies at clubs and organizations often uncovers additional prospects. With these aids, you should have little difficulty “selling” your prospects.
You’re ready for Step 5-
^ Book Your Trip If you're working with a travel agent, he’ll make your Clipper and hotel reservations, etc. If you're working with your PAA sales office, PAA will reserve Flying Clipper space, advise you on passports, governmental requirements and available hotels, etc. You’ll arrange hotel reservations and sight-seeing services yourself.
Apply in writing to your nearest PAA office for your free (or reduced rate) ticket as tour conductor and attach a copy of your announcement and the number of people you expect to book on your tour. If you’re working with a travel agent, do it through him.
Now your group can get wardrobes ready, read up on the special attractions of the countries you’ll visit.
Then, all together take Step 6.
All Aboard As the responsible	i	BEGIN
leader, you’ll be the group’s	f	NOW
spokesman at the airport, in making
• i	i	L .	Mali This
connections with ground transpor-	coupon
tation, at hotels and on sight-see-	TODAY
ing trips, with Pan American serving
and assisting you along the way. No	QCgation
doubt — depending on the nature of	involved
your tour — you’ll plan informal talks, lectures, conferences and inter
Europe’s all you expected . . . from Lisbon and Rome to the Parisian cafes and Venetian gondolas.

Üf
views, arrange for theaters, night clubs, visits to cultural and historic centers and other attractions that are world-famous or off the beaten track.
You’ll all have such a memorable time that on your return, your group may suggest . . .
Another Trip Next Year Ask if they’d like to " sign up for a different trip next year. Ask them to tell their friends and you’ll find you’re planning another thrilling tour for next year . . . with your fare all taken care of.
(Detach here and mail either to your local Pan American World Airways System sales office or to your Travel Agent.)
Dear Sir:
I believe I can organize a Pan American Clipper Travel Group for an international tour by air. Therefore, I should appreciate a call from your representative.
Name.......................Telephone No.............
Street & No.........................................
City.
Zone.
State.
([Since the sooner you send this, the sooner you can get started on your fare-free trip, we suggest you mail this request NOW.)