Pan American World
^//ie ^dIfor/d's ^fflost ^-^Experiencedodir/ine
Clipper. Trademark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Now YOU can
While We Pay the Fare
Organize Your Own
Par American CLIPPER tour
Yes — you can really go places when you organize your own Clipper tour. Read how easy it is to get your own passage free. Then consult us. Or, if you prefer, use the coupon provided in this folder to get started on your program today.
WHEN YOU CONDUCT
Flying Clipper
TRAVEL GROUPS
Pan American World Airways
^lle aSifstem of fle’-^F/yintj Clippers
Pan American offers you
Yes, FREE transportation, if you organize and conduct your own Clipper Tour ... 15 or more full-fare-paying passengers . . . arranging for their transportation, hotel accommodations, sight-seeing, etc. (For 10 to 14 passengers, you can travel half fare.)
Like a dream come true, isn’t it? Going with relatives or friends, congenial members of your school or church, your club, lodge or post . . . including even fellow workers with only two weeks' vacation'.
And you choose the destination, too. Would your group like to attend some special convention or exhibit, festival or event? Study yesterday’s culture or
today’s conditions? Visit friends or relatives, scenic, historic or religious centers? Join the international set? Hold a reunion in an exotic or nostalgic setting? Or do they simply want to get away, relax, have fun?
Whether you choose Europe or the Orient, Australia or somewhere in the Americas, flying above the weather on the world’s most experienced airline, your group will enjoy tops in travel comfort . . . arrive in HOURS. With meals on the house and no tipping, luxurious Clippers will save them money, too . . . give them extra days and nights — say in London or Paris, Rio or Hawaii. And your passage will cost nothing!
AN AUTHORIZED
firn
TRAVEL AGENT
can Help make your Clipper Tour a complete success. He has the answers to questions your group may ask since he’s familiar with customs and places of interest, travel documents, reserva-
tions and choices of routing. And most of his services cost you nothing extra. He’ll be glad to put his travel knowledge at your disposal — so why not see him first and see him soon.
Copyright 1950, Pan American World Airways, Inc.