YOUR TOUR COST INCLUDES Air Transportation: Tours IT-AMF-H1 and IT-AMF-H2 include Special 15 Day Excursion Tourist Class tickets which require an extra charge of $34.02 for a Friday, Saturday or Sunday flight between San Francisco or Los Angeles and Honolulu. Tour IT-AMF-H3 includes standard fare Tourist Class ticket. A Canadian fare supplement of $16.60, round-trip, is required for flights between Vancouver, B.C., and Honolulu. First Class air transportation in connection with the above tours is also offered between all Pacific Coast Gateway Cities and Honolulu at extra cost; please consult your booking agent.
Hotel Accommodations: Are included as specified in itineraries. All rates are subject to availability of the type of hotel accommodations specified in tour itinerary and are subject to confirmation before bookings are accepted.
Surface Transportation: Sightseeing and motor trips are included as specified in itineraries and on a seat in the car basis. Not Included in Tour Cost: Transfers between Honolulu airport and Waikiki are not included unless otherwise specified in itinerary; tip to guides, entertainers, porters and hotel staff: charges for laundry, wines, liquors, telephone calls and room service; meals except as specified, all personal luggage and trip insurance are not included. (NOTE: Baggage and Trip Insurance is recommended and can be secured from your local booking agent).
. CONDITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. in arranging travel accommodations or in rendering other service in connection therewith does so as agent for the individual desiring such travel accommodations upon the express condition and agreement that it shall not be liable for any injury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity or expense arising from the use of any travel facilities, accommodations or services provided in connection with such individual's travel plan, nor for any injury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity or expense arising from strikes, war, weather, quarantines, sickness, government restrictions or regulations, or from any act or omission of any individual, firm or corporation furnishing transportation, sightseeing, hotel accommodations' or any other services in connection with such travel plan, or for any other cause whatsoever in connection therewith, nor for any additional cost or expense due to disruption or change of advertised shedules, rates or services, or for any other cause beyond its own control. All travel facilities, accommodations and services are subject to the laws of the respective countries involved in the travel plan and all claims for refunds for unused travel facilities, accommodations, services or otherwise must be made by the individual for whom the travel plan is prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the individual, firm or corporation furnishing such travel facilities, accommodations or services, and the liability of any such individual, firm or corporation is limited in accordance with the terms of their contracts. All costs, rates, tariffs and other charges are computed on the present value of foreign currencies as related to dollars of the United States of America for dollars of the Dominion of Canada if the facilities of such travel plan are received and paid for in a Canadian office of Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. and accordingly are subject to adjustment at any time without prior notice. The acceptance of any travel plan or other service by any individual shall be deemed to constitute an acceptance of this limitation of liability or responsibility,—Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc.
The Airlines concerned are not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passenger ticket in use by the airlines concerned, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
Air Tours are operated in connection with, or in conjunction with air services of Northwest Orient Airlines, Fan American World Airways, United Air Lines, Canadian Pacific Airlines, Japan Air Lines, and/or Qantas Empire Airways Neighbor Islands tours include flights via Aloha Airline and/or Hawaiian Air Lines.
FOR RESERVATIONS CONSULT


Choose any of the Hawaiian trips outlined in this brochure, and you travel as free from care as the trade winds.
These are the gentle islands of the Pacific, beloved of seafarers and travelers since time began. Anxious rush and hurry are definitely out of place in the bénéficient atmosphere of Hawaii.
Your travel arrangements in the Islands are flexible. Each of these lovely trips may be modified, lengthened, or shortened, to take all advantage of this wonderful age of air travel.
Book “Ask Mr. Foster” Hawaiian trips in the office of your neighborhood travel agent, at airline ticket desks, with your authorized convention representative, or in “Ask Mr. Foster” branch offices, coast to coast.
These tours feature the services of Northwest Orient Airlines, Pan American World Airways, United Air Lines, Canadian Pacific Airlines, and Qantas Airways.
PA.ttf AME RICAN
dOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
3-59 LBC
11*'NTç0
& i
! Ì