THREE WEEKS of superb adventure, seeing ALL of Hawaii
$778.79*
* Including Air Tourist from West Coast
This trip to Hawaii is a dream come true. There is something new and beautiful to see, something exciting to do, every. single day. And your trip is planned with glorious Hawaiian leisureliness. Refreshed and renewed, your every moment on the “Adventure Islands” becomes unforgettable.
1T-AMF-HA
“KAUAI H’AI”
a carefree night and day on the garden isle
$39.97=*
from Honolulu airport to Kauai and return
Leave Honolulu airport in late afternoon, arrive Kauai Inn in time for five o’clock rendezvous hour and for dinner.
Next morning after breakfast we will bring around a U-Drive car, a picnic lunch and map and then you are on your own for a day of unforgettable motoring. Kauai is a motorist’s paradise —no traffic, paved, well-marked highway; enchanting, unspoiled roadsides'; secluded white sand beaches.
Your plane leaves for Honolulu in the very late afternoon. Drop off your car at the Lihue airport. (Ten to one you will cancel your flight reservation and stay another day.)
'At Kauai Inn, sharing standard twin-bedded room, including dinner, breakfast and picnic lunch, and transfer from Lihue airport to Kauai Inn. For each of two add taxes of $2.77. Single room rate—$43.33 plus taxes of $2.94. Add a very nominal car rental for one day.
Y p gj '/> ■ ' sp
- / ■
IT INCLUDES: • a week at the superb Royal Hawaiian Hotel
•	three nights at Kona Inn, on the Kona Coast of
the Big Island
•	two nights at Kauai Inn, on the Garden Island
of Kauai
•	one night at The Naniloa, at Hilo.
•	a week at the fabulous Hawaiian Village
•	all meals during your week of Outer Island
travel.
•	limousine touring of Three Neighbor Islands,
including visits to the new vacation discoveries of Lahaina on the Island of Maui, and the Hamakua Coast of the Big Island.
AT WAIKIKI:
•	a luncheon and style show in the Monarch Room
of the Royal Hawaiian Hotel.
•	a Saturday luncheon at a “Hawaii Calls” broad-
cast.
1T-AMF-HB
“FIRE GODDESS”
The Big Island volcanoes The halcyon Kona Coast
Two days, one night From Honolulu airporr and return
$78.89*
FIRST DAY Leave Honolulu airport on mid-morning flight over the Island of Maui and on to Kona on the Big Island.
A delightful afternoon and evening of relaxation to enjoy the world-famed charm of Kona.
SECOND DAY Breakfast on the terrace overlooking the surf at Kona Inn. Then you will motor along the famed Kona coast to Hawaii National Park to see the world’s largest active volcanoes. You’ll see the “House of Fire” home of Madame Pele, the Hawaiian Fire Goddess. At Volcano House you’ll have luncheon overlooking the crater of Kilauea Volcano and see fantastic color films of Madame Pele’s anger. Then a drive through the Fern Tree Forest to visit the orchid nurseries and the Rainbow Falls at Hilo. Then on to the sparkling new Hilo Airport terminal for a late afternoon flight direct to Honolulu.
At Honolulu Airport a transfer to the International Terminal is included if you are flying home to the Mainland this evening.
'Each of twp, sharing standard twin-bedded room at Kona Inn, including lunch, dinner and breakfast at Kona; lunch at Volcano House, all sightseeing in limousine. Applicable taxes for each of two, $6.80. Single rate is $84.95 plus taxes of $6.98.
•	a limousine tour to Mt. Tantalus and luncheon
at the famous Waioli Tea Room.
•	a catamarran sail and Pearl Harbor cruise.
•	a limousine tour to beautiful Koko Head.
•	a Luau. (Hawaiian feasting, singing and dancing)
•	a Kikiki Hauoli.
•	an escorted tour of Waikiki night life spots.
•	a limousine each Sunday to take you to church.
(There are many churches of great interest and charm in Hawaii; it may be your good fortune to hear a favorite hymn in Hawaiian, a language which “sings” with exceeding beauty.)
•	airport transfers between hotels and all air
flights.
Including 7 nights at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, 7 nights at the Hawaiian Village Hotel, and 6 nights at Inter-Island Resorts, Ltd. hotels, each of two sharing standard twin bedded rooms with private bath. Applicable taxes for each of two—$25.52. Single room rate: $969.96, plus taxes of $30.41. Accommodations also offered at the Halekulani, the Princess Kaiulani, the Surf Rider and the Moana Hotels at rates according to current tariffs. Apartment accommodations at Waikiki also offered—please inquire for rates. For first class round trip flights, add $106.05.


T-AMF-H1
“ON THE BEACH AT WAIKIKI”
Seven sparkling days, Six languorous nights
$279.97*
including Air Tourist Excursion fare from West Coast.
FIRST DAY—Arrive at Honolulu International Airport.
We shall welcome you there with an Aloha lei of lovely Hawaiian flowers, assist you with your baggage checks, answer questions, and see you happily off to your Waikiki Beach hotel (nominal airport limousine fare not included).
You’ll think no other airport in the world is as much fun to arrive at as glamorous Honolulu International—and you’ll be right!
SECOND AND THIRD DAYS—Beachcombing at Waikiki. Lucky you, doing exactly as you please, soaking up the gentle Hawaiian sun.
FOURTH DAY—Today you have decided to do THINGS! Hooray, because you just mustn’t miss the Gray Line Sightseeing or Avis U-Drive excursions to scenic and historic high points of Oahu! And right at Waikiki there are a hundred exhilarating things to
do. Outrigger canoe and catamaran rides. Sailboating. Surf boarding. Swimming, Hula and Ukulele lessons. Beach boy serenades. Flower arrangement classes. The Eastman Kodak hula show for color filming each Thursday at Kapiolani Park. The “Hawaii Calls” broadcast every Saturday.
Fun items like these cost very little extra; some cost nothing at all.
And the places to eat. From casual to posh. Examples: A corner coffee counter, where the ginger pancakes are out of this world. Dinner and dancing at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel—elegant, relaxed, luxurious. Sunset cocktails and dinner on the Hau Terrace at the top-drawer Halekulani Hotel, essence of charm. Seven excellent and completely different restaurants at the Hawaiian Village Hotel; our very favorite, the Tea House of the Golden Dragon. And permit us to mention a Waikiki specialty of long tradition: incomparable coconut cake, glorious to behold, light as cloud nine, irresistible.
FIFTH DAY—Reserve today for the fun things you didn't get done yesterday, and perhaps for a little remembrance shopping for folks back home.
¡SIXTH DAY—This is, unless we can persuade you to stay longer, your next to last day, and a good day, we think, to exchange the fabulous Kikiki Hauoli in your voucher booklet for a Big Day or Big Evening. (But of course, it’s good any day you choose to spend it. This is YOUR vacation!)
SEVENTH DAY—A mad rush today. One more taste of every pleasure; one more “until we meet again Aloha.” And the take-off from Honolulu International Airport—wonderful, exciting crossroads of the Pacific.
And so quickly are you home that these lovely islands never again will seem far, faraway. Nor will you envy the South Sea romances of the raconteur. You’ll have stories of your own to tell!
Including 6 nights at the Princess Kaiulani, the Halekulani, or the Moana Hotels, each of two sharing minimum rate twin bedded rooms with private bath, plus taxes of $1.94. Single room rate, $309.97, plus $2.78 taxes.
Accommodations also offered at the Hawaiian Village, the Royal Hawaiian, the Surf Rider and other select hotels in accordance with current room tariffs. For flights between California and Honolulu on Friday, Saturday or Sunday, add $34.02.
IT-AMF-H2
“THE GENTLE ISLANDS OF HAWAII”
Hauoli in your voucher booklet for a Big Day or Big Evening. The choice is yours. The Kikiki pays for all except tips. Do telephone ahead for reservations!
Leave Waikiki by airport limosine for a mid-morning flight over the Island- of Maui and to the Kona Coast of Hawaii, the “Big Island.”
At Kona Inn, in the seashore village of Kailua. Delightful afternoons and evenings for relaxation. A wonderful place to play tennis, to swim, to stroll, to shop, and to become acquainted with artists, deep sea fishermen, and other interesting folk who make Kona their home.
In the morning you’ll enjoy the half-day drive through the coffee plantations, and seeing the historic monuments of ancient Hawaiian royalty.
After breakfast, you motor along the Kona Coast to the Hawaii National Park to see the volcanoes. You’ll visit the Halemaumau Crater “House of Fire,” drive through the Fern Tree Forest, lunch at renown Volcano House at Kilauea Volcano. Then a stop at the orchid nurseries at Hilo and on to the airport for connecting flights to the Island of Kauai.
At Kauai Inn, in time for those pleasant social moments before dinner. (You’ll love the plantation country club air of Kauai Inn, for it is the favorite five o’clock meeting place of the Island.)
Breakfast at the Inn (banana bread is the specialty). Sightseeing to Waimea Canyon, the Fern Grotto and to the lovely bays and beaches where South Pacific was filmed. Then a late afternoon plane back to the Honolulu airport, where you’ll have time for refreshments in the Sky Room, swank international rendezvous, before take-off time for flight to the mainland.
IT-AMF-H3
“ADVENTURE ISLANDS”
dent wesK an ine oeacn at vvaifcmi s of adventure on the Outer Islands
four days and t
of Hawaii from California $444.40*
Including Air Tourist Excursion fare from West Coast.

Arrive at Honolulu International Airport.
You’ll be welcomed with an Aloha lei of lovely fresh Hawaiian flowers, assisted with your baggage, and seen happily off to your Waikiki Beach hotel. How extraordinary, you’ll think—this airport arrival is great fun!
Beachcombing and doing exactly as you please at Waikiki! Soak up the gentle Hawaiian sun, get a golden suntan so you can “go native” on the Outer Islands.
One day at Waikiki you’ll want to exchange the fabulous Kikiki
Including 7 nights at the Halekulani or the Moana Hotel, each of two sharing minimum rate twin bedded rooms with private bath, plus one night at Kauai Inn and 2 nights at Kona Inn, each of two sharing standard twin bedded rooms with private bath. Meals, beginning with lunch on the eighth day and ending with lunch on the eleventh day, and all transportation, plus taxes of $14.30. Rate for single rooms— $483.93 plus taxes of $15.35. Accommodations offered at the Hawaiian Village, the Royal Hawaiian, and the Surf Rider and other select hotels in accordance with current room tariffs. For flights between California and Honolulu on Friday, Saturday or Sunday, add $34.02.
So quickly will you be home that the flowers you’ve brought from Hawaii will be as bright and fresh as your own memories of all these lovely islands.