• : *
THE FABULOUS KIKIKI HAUOLI
KIKIKI HAUOLI
i 1
Every Ask Mr. Foster trip to the Hawaiian Islands includes a Kikiki Hauoli, a good time ticket, to introduce you to exceptional entertainment often missed by mainland visitors.
Your travel voucher booklet lists all the latest Kikiki entertainment and sightseeing discoveries —any one of which is yours in exchange for one Kikiki Hauoli coupon.
Do look over this list of the most popular of Kikiki fun features:
A All-day Circle Island Tour of Oahu, via Gray Line glass-topped, air-conditioned Golden Grayliner. A fascinating trip along the windward shoreline and through vast fields of pineapple — surely the most exotic plant ever tamed to Big Business.
B A big evening at the Hawaiian Village Hotel! Arthur Lyman entertainment in the Shell Bar cocktail room, dancing to exciting orchestras, your choice of three cocktails served in either the Shell Bar or the Tapa Room, and the Tapa Room’s late evening show of famous Alfred Apaka. Cover charge for the late floor show is included.
C A glamorous Thursday evening at the top-drawer Halekulani Hotel—a sunset cocktail in the celebrated “House Without a Key” or on the Diamond Head Terrace; dinner under a large hau tree on the Coral Lanai; and an utterly charming after-dinner show featuring old Hawaiian dances.
D Personal shopping tour of Blairs Ltd. shops at Waikiki. Your Kikiki may be exchanged for a koa wood leaf tray of superb grain and design (No. l-LT-78 in Blair’s gift catalog). Or if you choose to spend your Kikiki for sightseeing or entertainment, your voucher booklet will nonetheless entitle you to a valuable 10% Malihini discount on your initial purchase in any Blairs Ltd. shop.
MOLOKAI
OAHU
MAUI
KAUAI
Hanoi
Laie Mormon Temple
- \ Kaneohe Bay
Kihikihi Fish
Valley of Lost Tribe Haena Bay
Wailua
Coconut Island
Kaunakaka
Wailua Be
Makapuu Light
West End
Koko Head Diamond Head Waikiki Beach
LIHUE
Fern Tree Forest
Cactus Gardens	Nawiliwili Harbor
K
Waimea Canyon
HANA
Puunene
Haleakalc
LAHAINA
National Park
Hamakua Coast
HAWAII
Kihei Beach
HONOLULU
Kohala
Orchid Farms
Parker Cattle Ranch
Mauna Kea-13,784 ft.
KONA
Volcano House
Coffee Plantations
Black Sand Beaches
' V j ' j \ t y / y /	y > w w w \ / v /	\ j	vy w	w vy >