You’ve always wanted to tour Europe GO IN THE THRIFT SEASON" and save
Between November 1st and March 31st, transatlantic fares will be reduced to their very lowest point—both on first-class President and President Special flights and also on The Rainbow, Pan American’s popular Clipper Tourist Service. Actual reduction from summer fares runs as high as 16% in many cases . . . more than $100 “cold cash’’ saved on a typical first-class flight.
See and feel the romantic charm of Europe as it settles down to its everyday life from a bustling and busy summer. View England as it should be seen, on a clear, crisp day . . . walk over the historic cobble stones of the Tower of London — its very atmosphere making you visualize and relive its moving, powerful past. Wander, leisurely, along the quaint streets of Paris with its fascinating shops, flower and book stalls galore . . . stroll in the majestic Tuilerie Gardens, always beautiful, leading up to the famous and impressive Louvre where lived the royalty of yesterday . . . wine and dine in the Parisienne manner like a real gourmet. Visit the enchanting shores of Italy where lived such masters as Michelangelo the painter, Cellini the sculptor, and the great and wise prince, Lorenzo de Medici. So much is here for you—all unchanged.
Imagine having your complete tour arranged for you in advance so that you won’t miss all the important sites and yet, at the same time, you can still feel “on your own.”
Too, by traveling during the Thrift Season, youll avoid the influx of summer travelers in addition to benefiting from reduced Thrift Season rates.
Once aboard the plane, you can relax with the realization that everything has already been carefully arranged
... no worries about cost or planning daily itineraries. Upon arrival, your advance arrangements through American Express Travel Service will assure a warm welcome and a hurdle, too, over any language difficulties.
You’ll come home from Europe on your Pan American Clipper with wonderful memories and a desire to return to Europe again soon. You can make a beautiful collection of mementos from each country as everything is made by the hands of expert craftsmen — leather, silver, perfume, clothing, lace and many other desirable	}
items at bargain prices, too! SEE	4
EUROPE NOW!
*7 ^
TRIP TIPS and GENERAL INFORMATION
What the rates include:
AIR TRANSPORTATION—Between New York and the cities in Europe as indicated in the itineraries, based on Pan American World Airways Trans-Atlantic Clipper service. Rates for Thrift Season Tours valid November 1, 1952, through March 31, 1953.
First Class vs. Tourist (Rainbow) Trans-Atlantic services Pan American World Airway’s trans-Atlantic Clipper Services offer the ultimate in comfort and convenience available to each class of air travel. Delicious complimentary meals are provided enroute at no extra charge on first class services, and adequate meal service is featured on Super-6 Rainbow Clippers at nominal charge. The basic difference between luxury flights and Rainbow service is that extra frills, complimentary meals, and beverages are omitted; with Rainbow service designed to appeal to those who wish to travel with convenience and comfort, but who must do so at a budget price.
The standard trans-Atlantic free baggage allowance of 66 pounds is included with your first class clipper air ticket, while Super-6 Rainbow Clipper service restricts the free baggage allowance to 44 pounds per person.
Transfers between airports and city air terminals and/or vice-versa by airline conveyance are not included in the cost of Trans-Atlantic first class or tourist class (Rainbow) services, but will be for the client’s account, except in Lisbon where no airline conveyance is available.
HOTELS—For “First” travel: basis twin-bedded room, with private bath where available, at first class hotels. For “Standard” travel, twin-bedded room without private bath at moderate priced hotels.
MEALS—For “First” travel: Continental (plain) breakfast, table d’hote luncheon, and table d’hote dinner while at hotels, except in Paris and Rome where Continental (plain) breakfast only, and in London where English style breakfast only, will be provided. For “Standard” travel, only Continental (plain) breakfast will be furnished (in London, English style breakfast will be provided).
SIGHTSEEING—By motorcoach throughout, with English speaking guides, except in Brussels, Amsterdam and Lisbon where a private automobile with English speaking guide will be provided. Should, at certain times of the year, motorcoach services not be available, private automobile sightseeing can be substituted against collection of supplementary charge.
TRANSFERS OF PASSENGERS AND THEIR HAND BAGGAGE-This will include two pieces of hand baggage not exceeding 66 pounds per person. Transfers between city airway and railway terminals and hotels (or vice-versa) in Europe, will be provided by taxi or hotel conveyance. Free baggage allowance on Tourist flights will be limited to 44 pounds per person.
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION-The SURFACE TRANSPORTATION is by day trains. For “First” travel: first class throughout, except where second class is best available. For “Standard” travel: second class—except in Italy, where first class will be provided.
GRATUITIES AND TAXES—Levied by governmental, municipal or other authorities are included in tour prices, except in Great Britain.
The rates do not include:
Transportation other than that shown in the itineraries: cost of passport, visas, laundry or other items of personal nature; wines, mineral waters and other beverages such as tea and coffee, when not included in the regular menus; lunches and dinners in Paris, London and Rome (for “First” travel); lunches and dinners throughout (for “Standard” travel); the cost of automobiles, guides, sightseeing and other services not specified in the itinerary; cost of private automobile sightseeing tours substituted for motorcoach sightseeing tours where, due to the season, motorcoach tours are not operated; transfers between airports and city air terminals (and/or vice-versa); fees, tips to porters for baggage handling; meals en route on Pan American’s Rainbow Clipper service—(available at nominal charge); meals while en route or on sightseeing tours in Europe.