Here9s the “THRIFT SEASON” TRIP that urns planned with YOU in mind
11J TV
LI .VIM*
ml i
21 days

m
THRIFT SEASON TOUR PAET—504
Available from Nov. 1,1952 to Mar. 19, 1953 inclusive]
1st day TO PARIS—Leave New York by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
2nd day ARRIVE PARIS—Proceed to Hotel.
3rd day TO DAVOS—Leave Paris by morning plane to Zurich. Thence by train to Davos. Transfer to Hotel.
4th day to 7th day IN DAVOS—One of the best known winter sports resorts in the Alps, offering a unique combination of sunshine and snow covered peaks.
8th day TO ST. MORITZ— Leave Davos by morning train to St. Moritz. Transfer to Hotel.
9th day to 11th day IN ST. MORITZ-Famous throughout the world for its wonderful winter sports facilities and its gay social life.
12th day TO LONDON—Leave St. Moritz by morning train to Zurich, and continue by evening plane to London. Transfer to Hotel.
13th day TO NEW YORK-Leave London by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
14th day ARRIVE NEW YORK
PAET #504 . . . RATES (Including air transportation)
“First” Travel	I “Standard” Travel
Tourist First Class	Tourist First Class
$698.00	$891.00	|	$593.00	$786.00
THRIFT SEASON TOUR PAET—503
Available from Nov. 1, 1952 to Mar. 12, 1953 inclusive.
1st day TO LONDON—Leave New York via Pan Amer
\ ican World Airways Clipper.
2nd day ARRIVE LONDON-Proceed to Hotel.
3rd day and 4th day IN LONDON—London of today, sprawling north and south, east and west to house some eight million people, is quite different from the original “City of London”—a one square mile of ground —where almost every street and every building reflects a historic past.
The sightseeing program includes a morning tour of the city and Central London by motorcoach, driving through Trafalgar Square, the Strand, Law Courts, London Bridge, including a visit to the Tower of London and St. Paul’s Cathedral and an afternoon tour of the West End of London by motorcoach passing Downing Street, Albert Hall, Buckingham Palace, the Mall, St. James’ Palace and Westminster Abbey.
5th day TO PARIS—Leave London by Air to Paris. Transfer to Hotel.
8th day and 7th day IN PARIS-Few cities in the world have had a more colorful existence than the French Capital. Its many ancient buildings prove that Paris has long been one of Europe’s great Historic centers. The sightseeing program features a morning tour by motorcoach embracing the Place de l’Opera, thf Louvre Palace, the Arc de Triomphe, the Eiffel Tower* the Invalides and Notre Dame Cathedral. An afternoon tour to Versailles by motorcoach provides a visit to the Palace and its grounds, the Museum of Carriages, as well as the Grand and Petit Trianon.
8th day TO NICE—Leave Paris by morning train to Nice. Transfer to Hotel.
9th day IN NICE—The world-renowned cosmopolitan playground of the Mediterranean.
10th day TO GENOA—Leave Nice by morning motorcoach along the French and Italian Rivieras to Genoa. Transfer to Hotel.
11th day TO FLORENCE—Leave Genoa by morning motorcoach via Pisa, to Florence. Transfer to Hotel.
12th day and 13th day IN FLORENCE-The famous Art Center of Italy, home of Michelangelo, the Medici, Leonardo da Vinci and Macchiavelli.
The sightseeing program offers a morning tour of Florence by motorcoach visiting the Cathedral, the Medici Chapels, the Basilica De San Lorenzo and the Pitti Palace and an afternoon tour visiting the Uffizi Galleries, the Palazzo Vecchio, also the Church of Santa Croce and Fiesole.
14th day TO NAPLES—Leave Florence by morning train to Naples. Transfer to Hotel. 15th day TO SORRENTO-Leave Naples by morning motorcoach visiting Pompei and Amalfi. Spend the night in beautiful Sorrento. 18th day TO CAPRI — Sail by morning steamer to the Isle of Capri. Visit the Island and the Blue Grotto. Transfer to hotel. 17th day TO ROME — Depart Capri by morning steamer for Naples, thence by Ra-pido train to Rome. Transfer to Hotel.
18th day and 19th day IN ROME-the Eternal City — may well be termed “The Old World’s most historic City.” Here the foundation of our classic literature was laid by many immortal Roman writers.
The sightseeing program embraces all main points of interest; the Vatican, Roman Forum, St. Peter’s Basilica, the venerable Colosseum and the Borghese Palace.
20th day TO NEW YORK-Leave Rome by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
21st day ARRIVE NEW YORK
PAET #503 . . . RATES (Including air transportation)
f>
1st day TO PARIS—Leave New York via Pan American'1 World Airways Clipper.
2nd day ARRIVE PARIS—Transfer to Hotel.
3rd day and 4th day IN PARIS—The great French^ Capital, Paris of the parks and broad boulevards, o sidewalk cafes and ancient churches, of elegant nightclubs and unique art galleries.
The sightseeing program includes a morning tour about the City embracing the Madeleine Church, the Place de la Concorde, the Champs Ely sees, the Arch de Triomphe, and old Montmartre.
An afternoon tour to Versailles includes the Palace of King Louis XIV, the peerless gardens, and the Petit and Grand Trianon.
5th day TO ROME—Leave Paris by air. Arrive Rome. Transfer to Hotel.
8th day to 7th day IN ROME—The famous Eternal City of the Roman Emperors and Popes, richer than any other city in art treasures of the Past. The sightseeing program embraces all main points of interest; the Vatican, Roman Forum, St. Peter’s Basilica, the venerable Colosseum and the Borghese Palace.
8th day TO NICE—Leave Rome by air. Arrive Nice. Transfer to Hotel.
9th day and 10th day IN NICE—The world-renowned cosmopolitan Capital of the Cote d’ Azur.
A morning tour by motorcoach embraces the coast from Nice to Cannes, and the coastal mountains up to Grasse, famous center of the perfume industry.
An afternoon motorcoach drive includes a visit to Menton and to famous Monte Carlo with its celebrated Casino high above the blue Mediterranean.
11th day TO LONDON—Leave Nice by air. Arrive London. Transfer to Hotel.
12th day and 13th day IN LONDON-The capital of the British Commonwealth, with its dignified atmosphere and Royal pomp and pageantry.
Sightseeing includes a morning tour around Central London including a visit to St. Paul’s Cathedral, the Tower of London, Trafalgar Square, London Bridge and the Law Courts.
A full day drive to the Shakespeare Country embraces a visit to Stratford-on-Avon, Birthplace of the Bard, and to Warwick and Kenilworth Castles.
14th day TO NEW YORK-Leave London via Pan American World Airways Clipper.
15th day ARRIVE NEW YORK
PAET #502 . . . RATES (Including air transportation)
"First" Travel Tourist	First Class
$744.00	$93 7.00
"Standard” Travel Tourist First Class $688.00 $881.00
LONDON, ENGLAND— Couple on Westminster Bridge.
ROME, ITALY—St. Peter’s Square— St. Peter’s Cathedral in background.
THRIFT SEASON TOUR PAET—505
Available from No. 1, 1952 to Mor. 5, 1953 inclusive.
1st day TO EUROPE—Leave New York by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
2nd day ARRIVE LISBON-Proceed to hotel.
3rd day and 4th day IN LISBON-Capital of Portugal. An amazing array of many colored Castles, Palaces, Forts and Casinos, enhanced by Parks with sub-tropical vegetation. The sightseeing program embraces points of interest in Lisbon and Estoril.
5th day TO MADRID—Leave Lisbon by air to Madrid. Transfer to Hotel.
8th day and 7th day IN MADRID—The spacious capital of Old World Spain with its fine streets and Museums with famous masterpieces, and endless other attractions. The sightseeing program will feature a morning excursion of Madrid and a full day tour by motorcoach to enchanting Toledo.
8th day TO ANDALUSIA—Leave Madrid on a Seven day all inclusive motorcoach tour of Andalusia.
9th day to 13th day ON TOUR—Visiting Cordoba, Seville, Cadiz, Malaga, Algeciras and Granada, where the visitor can admire countless remnants of the Moorish period.
14th day TO MADRID—Return in the evening, remaining overnight. Transfer to hotel.
15th day TO BARCELONA—Leave Madrid by air for Barcelona. Transfer to Hotel.
18th day IN BARCELONA—Capital of the Catalan Province and the largest commercial and industrial city in Spain. The sightseeing program offers a motorcoach excursion of Barcelona.
TO NICE—Leave Barcelona by air for Nice. Transfer to Hotel.
a THRIFT SEASON TOUR 9	PAET—501
Available from Nov. 1, 1952 to Mar. 19, 1953 inclusive.
1st day TO PARIS—Leave New York via Pan American World Airways Clipper.
2nd day ARRIVE PARIS—Proceed to Hotel.
3rd day to 5th day IN PARIS—with its wide avenues and tree-studded boulevards, its busy streets and peaceful parks, its charming sidewalk cafes and intriguing bistros, will always be the “Dream-City” of Europe.
The sightseeing program includes a morning tour by motorcoach embracing the Place de l’Opera, the Louvre Palace, the Arc de Triomphe, the Eiffel Tower, the Invalides and Notre Dame Cathedral.
An afternoon tour to Versailles by motorcoach visiting the Palace and its grounds, Museum of Carriages, Grand and Petit Trianon, etc.
8th day TO BRUSSELS—Leave Paris by morning train. Arrive Brussels early afternoon. Transfer to Hotel.
7th day IN BRUSSELS—a charming old city where a historic past is deeply etched into the life and living of a great, industrial metropolis. It is a typical European City where the past seems as important as the future.
The sightseeing program provides a morning tour of the city by private auto, including among other points of interest the Church of St. Gudule, Wiertz Museum, Town Hall, Anspach Memorial.
8th day TO AMSTERDAM—Leave Brussels by morning train. Arrive Amsterdam in the afternoon. Transfer to hotel.
9th day IN AMSTERDAM—one of the strange cities of the Old World. Built on foundations several feet below sea level, the old and the modern structures are not only separated by streets but also by canals. The number of canals can be imagined from the fact that the city has more than 450 bridges.
The sightseeing program includes a morning tour of the City by private auto taking in the Royal Palace, the National Gallery, the Municipal Museum, and a visit to a fascinating Diamond Cutting factory.
Leave Amsterdam by evening cross-channel Service.
10th day ARRIVE LONDON—In the forenoon. Transfer to Hotel.
11th day and 12th dafjINLONDON-Tothe great British Commonwealth of Nations,. London stands as the symbol of power and authority. It is the seat of the Sovereign, and the great center from where the common interests of many nations of the realm are guided.
The sightseeing program includes a morning tour by motorcoach, covering Trafalgar Square, the Strand, Law Courts, London Bridge, with visits to the Tower of London and St. Paul’s Cathedral. In the afternoon the tour continues by motorcoach passing Downing Street, Albert Hall, Buckingham Palace, the Mall, St. James’ Palace, with a visit to Westminster Abbey and the Wallace Collection.
13th day TO NEW YORK-Leave London via Pan American World Airways Clipper.
14th day ARRIVE NEW YORK
* PAET #501 . . . RATES (Including air transportation)
"First" Travel * Tourist First Class $621.00	$814.00
"Standard” Travel Tourist First Class $564.00	$757.00
MBs
.il it'
THE RIVIERA, FRANCE—Tourists shopping in Cannes.
17th day and 18th day IN NICE—The alluring French Riviera is one of the most cosmopolitan areas in Europe. People from all over the world enjoy its mild winters and many have become permanent residents.
The sightseeing program provides a motorcoach excursion to Menton arid Monte Carlo.
19th day TO ROME—Leave Nice by air for Rome. Transfer to hotel.
20th day to 22nd day IN ROME—Once visited, s Rome will not soon be forgotten. Rich in historic monuments and art treasures, its many attractions will appeal to the most discriminating traveler. The sightseeing program will include an excursion by motorcoach to the Vatican, Roman Forum and St. Peter’s Church.
23rd day TO PARIS—Leave Rome by air for Paris. Transfer to hotel.
24th day to 28th day IN PARIS—When the sun sets and thousands of lightbulbs start to glow, Paris’ Montmartre begins to live. The festive mood of an evening in Paris is typified by colorful crowds, haunting lanes, and innumerable picturesque sidewalk cafes in festive mood. The sightseeing program will include a motorcoach excursion of Modern Paris and Versailles.
27th day TO NEW YORK-Leave Paris by Pan American World Airways Clipper.
28th day ARRIVE NEW YORK
PAET #505 . . . RATES (Including air transportation)
“First" Travel Tourist	First Class
$958.00	$1075.00
"Standard" Travel Tourist First Class $833.00	$950.00