EXCITING VACATIONLANDS
Indies, or on down the beautiful east coast of South America to Rio, Montevideo or Buenos Aires. Others will speed high above the Gulf to Guatemala, Mexico, Balboa and down the scenic west coast by Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra) to Quito, Lima, Santiago, and across the Andes to Buenos Aires.
You, too, can enjoy a thrilling Latin American vacation to suit your purse. Whether your trip be a brief few days or three months, there are gay lands to enthrall you every minute of it. . . Travel Agents, too, have plans for special airborne Pan American tours to suit your individual desires, time and travel budget.
Pan American’s special vacation fares— effective May 1 to September 30—can make this your airborne vacation year.
Imagine your vacation filled with the wonder of fabulous Latin America—lands far beyond the distance you thought possible to reach in an all-too-short summer vacation.
This summer, students, teachers, businessmen, stenographers, housewives—all over the United States—will be taking advantage of Pan American’s special, vacation-time discount rates to wing their way to the most exciting, glorious vacation they’ve ever had.. . .
Leaving any one of Pan American’s “gateways” in the United States—New York, Miami, New Orleans, Houston, and Brownsville—these vacationers will board luxurious, swift, four-engine Flying Clippers and soar out over the purple waters of the Gulf Stream and the blue Caribbean to the romantic islands of the West
Y Rio's year 'round salubrious climate adds to the delight of a romantic rendezvous at a little cafe perched high on a mountain overlooking the sparkling bay.
Only a short drive from Mexico City are the famed floating gardens of Xochimilco — built by the Aztecs—where flower-covered gondolas will carry you through en-charitingly beautiful canals while gay native musicians serenade you.
■f Hard riding, colorful gauchos of the Arg entine pampas like?music — and an appreciate audience. The huge estancias, cattle ranches, ard just a short dri^e from Buenos Aires.
SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT FOR DETAILS Of THIS NEW 20% DISCOUNT OFFER!
f luxurious Hotel Jara-gua in Ciudad Trujillo, first of Spairi's New World capita s. Nearby are mahogany and ebony forests, haciendas with sleek Arabian thoroughbreds.
Trinidad — home of the Calypso songs — unfolds an exotic tapestry of many colorful peoples and customs before your eyes. Here a venerable Hindu poses with his wife.
♦ Eighth wonder of the world — Haiti's impregnable mountain citadel of Black King Christophs,
who built magnificent Sans Souci Palace.
f Golf on the velvet links of the Country Club at Caracas, Venezuela (3000 feet elevation) in a setting of lovely purple mountains is a thrill you'll long remember*
f DelightfullWonderfull Are but pale compliments for Argentina's hospitality. Luxurious accommodations, the finest cuisine, and your favorite sport are yours at the many fine hotels and resorts.
Colon Cathedral, facing this 16th Century cobblestoned square, has sumptuous marble ond gold altar. Bell towers like this doubled as landmarks, lookouts against marauders.
f Ghosts of proud Mayan warriors still walk among the ruins of crumbling temples and pyramids of ancient Yucatan, Mexico.
lake Titicaca, highest navigable body of water in the world, straddles the Peru-Bolivia border. Here tourists sail in a reed boat paddled by a descendant of the Incas.
♦“ Santiago, Chile's beautiful modern capital Where the snow-capped Andes are breath-taking backdrop for magnificent buildings bordering spacious tree-shaded avenues.	~	1
	■ i	i ; J ,	
(ÿr Pa/v America w World Aihua j / 1		Y& ic ^/ne System of thSS/yiny (flippers j| ' ;