A PILOT'S 1HIBUIE
The time has come to hang my uniform on a peg and turn to gentler pursuits. Aviation and I were born within a few months of each other. As a child I marveled at rickety Voisins, Farmans and Antoinettes wobbling over Holland’s meadows. Arriving at Ellis Island, one thought possessed me: to fly. From Jennies to Jets is a long time and aviation is not what it used to be, but then—neither am I.
As I step out of the cockpit, it seems to me that aviation and I are arriving at a crucial point. The art of flying, as I have known it, is passing and I am beginning to feel as out-of-date as those who manned full rigged ships, drove prairie schooners or engaged in combat in armoured suits. Smoke on the horizon spelled doom for sailing ships. The roar at launching pads hints that our jet skippers are heading for space.
Where I have been and what I have done is of small import to anyone but myself. Any records I have made were due to strong tailwinds and that I have never scratched an airplane I owe as much to all of you in the air and on the ground as I do to myself.
I am leaving feeling deeply grateful to all with whom I have worked and flown. The spirit of mutual dependence, of doing a job together, is one of the greatest satisfactions of our job. The airplanes, I will miss them but I am developing other interests to take their place. My friends—nothing in the world can ever replace them. To the company and those who guide it I owe a great debt. The vision of aviation they shaped into being gave my life meaning beyond my fondest dreams.
To phase out of active life takes perhaps more guts than phasing into it. From now on it is up to me without a crew to pick up the pieces. I want to write a book or two, read, study abroad and in between ride my bike and do some skiing. It is not going to be easy. To give up flying is like ending a love affair. It hurts but one gets over it.
I do not know if transporting people from here to there has any significance in the scheme of things. “The beauty of life,” wrote Luis de Leon, “is nothing but this, that each should act in conformity with his nature and his business.”
Flying has been my business.
IN HIS MORE than 30 years with Pan American, Captain Marius Lodeesen, who came to the United States as an emigrant from his native Holland, spent 24,400 hours at the controls of Pan Am Clippers of all types from flying boats to Boeing 707’s. He penned this tribute to his fellow workers on the ground and in the air on the occasion of his retirement in April, 1964.