GETTING AROUND WITH PAN AM
This specially designed Pan Am Map-Guide is another traveler's help for you—our passengers. It's been designed to give you a quick, comprehensive plan of the heart of the city. It also highlights the principal attractions, and there's an index for ready reference.
Our Pan Am's World Map-Guides are only one way we set out to give you more help when you get there. There are lots of others.
We have a highly trained English-speaking staff available at more than 200 offices around the globe. When you land and want advice you'll find they're at the airport.
So is our Consumer Action Team. These wonder workers
are Pan Am's practical problem solvers when
hotel reservations go awry or other problems come up.
If. as a Pan Am passenger, you run into unexpected problems just ask for Consumer Action and they'll take action, on-the-spot.
OTHER WAYS THAT PAN AM CAN HELP We do more for our passengers. For example, we offer the most extensive library of travej advice available anywhere in the world today. This map is one example. There are many others. When you're in Hong Kong, you may wish to use Pan Am's The Real Pacific: Hawaii to Hong Kong and Pan Am's World: Shopping in the Pacific and Asia. If you plan to take in Europe other Pan Am publications may be useful: Hidden Europe:
Fiy To it. Drive Through it and Pan Am's World: Shopping in Europe. Drop in at the Pan Am offices in Hong Kong for books, booklets, guides, cassettes and details of other services. The offices are at Prince's Building, Charter Road, HK; Alexandra House, HK; Peninsula Hotel, Kowloon (tel: 231111). While this is a city map you'll get more enjoyment out of your visit if you see the nearby areas. Stop by Pan Am's World Rent-a-Car at 100 Sing Woo Road (tel: 5722322) or at the Mandarin Hotel or Lee Garden Hotel to arrange a low-cost rental.
VITAL STATISTICS
Size:	Hong Kong Island 29 square miles. Total
area of colony 403 square miles. Population: 4,064,400
Currency: The Hong Kong dollar; HK $5 = US $1 T (approx.)
Climate:	Pleasant and sub-tropical. Temperature
average 70° in spring and fall; 60° in winter; 80° (hot and humid) in summer, the rainy season.
GETTING INTO TOWN
Kai Tak is six miles from Kowloon. A limousine service is run by some hotels to and from the airport. Sometimes complimentary but usually not, so be sure to check.
Taxis
Regular taxis don't usually pick up at the airport on a meter rate, but there are both special airport (Mercedes) taxis and cars.
Helicopter
A helicopter service runs between Kai Tak and Victoria.
It takes about five minutes and costs about H K$50.
LANDMARKS
The main landmarks on this map are illustrated with a grid reference for speedy identification.
Statue Square (G4)
The center of Victoria City. Nearby is the Mandarin Hotel which is an Inter-Continental Hotel.
City Hall (G5)
A complex of modern buildings in Victoria City. As well as the City Hall there are a concert hall, theater, museum and art gallery.
Peninsula Hotel (F8)
One of the oldest hotels in South East Asia. Built and run on the grand scale.
Happy Valley Race Course (H10)
A beautiful race-course on Hong Kong Island, parimutuel betting.
Ocean Terminal (F6)
Modern dock development in Kowloon with over 100 shops, nightclubs, restaurants, bank and car parks.
Government House (H4)
Next to the Botanic Gardens in Victoria and rebuilt during the occupation.
ACCOMMODATIONS
Hong Kong has many hotels of all categories. The traditions of the Orient and fierce competition mean that there is good service nearly everywhere. If you arrive with nowhere to stay go to the Hong Kong Hotels Association Reservations Desk at the air terminal. But if you want to head into town and look around yourself, goto Kowloon. Many of Hong Kong's hotels are here at the southern end of Nathan Road (D and E8) and the surrounding streets. There is a YMCA on Salisbury
Buses
There are good bus services in Kowloon and Victoria and also to the outlying districts. In Kowloon the rate is from 300 to $1.50 and in Victoria it is 200 flat rate.
The bus terminal in Victoria is near the Macao Ferry Dock (F4); in Kowloon it is near the railroad station and the Star Ferry terminal (F7).
Doubledecker Streetcars In Victoria the charge is 200. A Hong Kong must is the Peak Tram which starts on Garden Road (H4) near the Botanic Gardens and takes you to the top of Victoria Peak (HI) with its spectacular view. The fare is HK$1.
Minibuses
These follow fixed routes, but may be flagged anywhere. The fare can vary from 500 to HK$3, depending on the distance traveled.
Rickshaws
A different way to see the city and there are plenty everywhere. Do negotiate the fare before setting off; haggling on the street afterwards can be embarrassing and you usually lose. The standard rate is anywhere from HK$1 for five minutes but this is seldom observed.
Trains
There is only one route—from Kowloon to the Chinese border. There are many stops and passengers not going to China must leave the train at Sheung Shin. There is a frequent service and it is inexpensive. Go to the railroad station near the Star Ferry terminal, Kowloon (F7).
Bicycles
Not recommended in the city but may be rented at Shek O Beach and some places in the New Territories.
Walking
The best way to explore the crowded, bustling streets and often faster than car or taxi.
Car rental
See information under OTHER WAYS THAT PAN AM CAN HELP.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
The eating-out choice in Hong Kong is enormous. All the big hotels have well-known and popular restaurants—the Mandarin Hotel Grill, the Hilton Grill Room, the Hyatt's Hugo and the Peninsula's Gaddi's. Naturally, Hong Kong is known for its Chinese food, mainly Cantonese like 80% of its Chinese population.
trouble competing with the Chinese for the waitresses' attention. Try The Gloucester in Gloucester Building between Des Voeux Road Central and Queen's Road Central (G4) (tel.H224-402).
DRINKING TIPS
No restrictions on hours but most bars close around 2 am. All the big hotels have bars and there is an endless list of nightclubs and cabarets. Order almost any Western drink although it's customary to drink tea before a Chinese meal and rice wine, tea or local beer. Sometimes rice liquor is served after a meal.
ENTERTAINMENT
Theater, Music
Most theater and concert performances take place at the City Hall Concert Hall and Theater (G5). Tickets should be booked in advance.
Movies
Chinese and English movie-theaters. Movies are shown in their original version with sub-titles. Tickets can be reserved in advance and should be if the movie is popular. Chinese sword-fighting movies are subtitled in English.
Chinese Opera
Sometimes performed on makeshift stages in small towns and in the New Territories at festival time. For traditional Chinese operas or music check with the Hong Kong Tourist Association, or look at the entertainment section of the daily newspaper The China Mail.
Nightclubs
There is a huge selection of bars, discotheques, clubs and cabarets. Look especially for the roof-top bars of some of the big hotels. A few of the most popular nightspots are:
The Den, Hilton Hotel, Queen's Road Central (G4) (tel: H233-111). Expensive but very popular.
El Caliph, Ambassador Hotel, Nathan Road (E8) (tel: K666-321 ). Great view, good Chinese and Western food. Miramar Theater Restaurant, Miramar Hotel, Nathan Road (D8) (tel: K681 -111). Beautiful Shang dynasty Chinese decorations. International-class floorshows. Peninsula Hotel, Gaddi's Chic, Nathan Road (F8) (tel: 666-251 ), superb food, good band. Marco Polo, intimate dance floor.Chinese and Western food. The Scene, discothèque for the young with reasonable prices. Bayside. Nathan Road, Kowloon (D8) (tel: 660-000). Intimate cellar with swinging music.
PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
Chinese holidays are fixed according to the Chinese calendar, which is calculated by the cycles of the moon, so dates can vary greatly from year to year.
New Year's Day, 1 Jan
Chinese New Year, 3 days, Jan or Feb
Ching Ming Festival, 5 Apr
Good Friday and Easter Monday
The Queen's Birthday, Apr
Dragon Boat Festival, Jun
The first weekday in Jul
The first weekday in Aug
Liberation Day, last Mon in Aug
The day following the Chinese Autumn (Moon)
Festival Day, Sept—Oct The day following the Cheung Yeung Festival Christmas Day, 25 Dec and the following weekday.
Chinese Festivals
The only evidence of some festivals is that the stores are all closed. Here is a list of the more colorful festivals, with parades or games.
Chinese New Year: three-day holiday.
Birthday of Tin Hau, Apr: Festival of the Heavenly Queen Goddess of Fishermen and Seafarers. Decorated boats with a pilgrimage to the temple at Joss House Bay. Cheung Chau Festival: Four-day festival on the island. Floats, lion dances and Chinese opera.
Dragon Boat Festival, Jun: Gaily carved boats race at Taipo and Aberdeen. Lion dances and Chinese opera. Mid-Autumn Festival, Sept: Moon cakes are given to friends.
AIRPORT INFORMATION
Kai Tak Airport
US citizens staying less than 30 days require only valid passport and round-trip ticket. Visas needed for longer stays. Smallpox vaccination certificate required and cholera inoculation recommended. There is an exit tax of HK$10.
Duty-free port. The following goods may be brought in: 200 cigarettes or 50 cigars, or J lb of tobacco, one bottle liquor. Reasonable quantity of opened perfume bottles.
Cars for personal use are duty-free. Gold (except personal jewelry), guns and ammunition and drugs are prohibited. No restrictions on goods taken out, but you are subject to your own country's import restrictions.
Road (F8) next to the Peninsula Hotel. There are also large hotels in the central district of Victoria City but remember, there is normally a 10% service charge added to hotel bills plus a government room tax of 2%.
Recommended Hotels include:
Expensive (from HK$65 single, HK$111 double)
Hong Kong Island
Repulse Bay, 109 Repulse Bay Road (tel: H92211) Mandarin, Connaught Road (G4)
(tel: 220111).
Hilton, 2 Queen's Road (G4) (tel: H233111)
Kowloon
Ambassador, Nathan/Middle Road (F8) (tel: K66321) Grand, 14 Carnarvon Road (E8) (tel: K669331) Medium (from HK$50single, HK$80 double)
Hong Kong Island
Alba (Causeway Bay), 9—15 Yee Wo street (G12) (tel: H778371)
Caravelle (Happy Valley) 84—86 Morrison Hill Road (H10) (tel: H754455)
Kowloon
Fortuna Court, 2—6 Chi Woo Street (B8) (tel:
K304321)
Nathan, 378 Nathan Road (D8) (tel: K885141) Inexpensive (from HK$40 single, HK$55 double)
Hong Kong Island
Sunning House, 10—14 Hysan Avenue (H11) (tel: H763301)
Kowloon
Astor, 11 Carnarvon Road (E8) (tel: K667261)
August Moon, 25 Kimberley Road (D8) (tel: K680221)
TRANSPORTATION
Ferry Service
The Star Ferry connects Kowloon and Victoria (F5 and F7). It runs often, takes about 10 minutes and costs 250 first-class. The vehicular ferry leaves from Jordan Road in Kowloon (C6) and costs 200 per passenger.
The fare.for cars depends on their size.
Taxis
Metered and very inexpensive—about HK$ 1 for the first mile and 800 for each additional mile in Kowloon;
H K$ 1.50 the first mile and H K$ 1 for each additional mile in Victoria. Consider using taxis for excursions outside the cities. There are stands at both ferry piers (F5 and F7).
A Chinese meal puts the emphasis on contrast and variety and might consist of hors d'oeuvre and main dish such as Peking duck, chicken dressed with pineapple in honey, roast pigeon or steamed shrimps. Order as many courses as there are people at the table, but take only a little of everything; it is bad form to refuse a dish except rice towards the end of meal—this shows the meal was good. Use chopsticks—they are easy and fun.
Among the best restaurants are:
Au Trou Normand, 6 Hankow Road, Kowloon (E8) (tel: K668-754). Excellent French food.
Juno Revolving Restaurant, 655 Nathan Road, Kowloon (E8) (tel: K840-001). Very good food with a view over the city from the 26th floor. The restaurant revolves once every 45 minutes.
Fish and Chips, 25C Hankow Road, Kowloon (E8) (tel: 663-282). Inexpensive and delicious fresh fish. Peking, 144 Gloucester Road, Hong Kong (G12) (tel: H761 -337). Expensive but delicious—especially the Peking duck.
Sea Palace (tel: H527-340) and the Tai Pak (tel: H526-444)—floating restaurants in Aberdeen Bay. You choose which fish you want to eat from tanks.
State, Li Po Chun Chambers, Hong Kong (tel: H435-341). Typical large, noisy Chinese restaurant with good food at reasonable prices.
Princess Garden, Miramar Hotel Arcade, Kowloon (C8) (tel: K691 -234). A bit noisy but good, northern food at reasonable prices.
Great Shanghai, 6-8 Prat Avenue, Kowloon (E9) (tel: K668-158). Great Shanghai food at good value prices. Café de Chine, China Building, Hong Kong (tel: H220-400). Really inexpensive and lots of fun but only for lunch.
American, 151 Wanchai Road, Hong Kong (H9) (tel: H728-122). Inexpensive, unpretentious and popular; in spite of the name only Shanghai and Cantonese food. Yung Kee, 32 Wellington Street, Hong Kong (G3) (tel: H232-343). Most famous Cantonese restaurant.
Fung Lam, 66 Granville Road, Kowloon (D9) (tel: K680-106).
QUICK EATING
For inexpensive or hurried eating, try the Cantonese specialty dim-sum. The waitress carries around a tray of little dishes, meanwhile singing in Chinese what she is offering. But arrive early (by 11:45 am) or you'll have
Dateline, 7 Wellington Street, Hong Kong (G3) (tel: H240-202). Great discothèque, good food and cheap drinks.
Savoy, 31 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong (G4) (tel: H 227-128). Chinese nightclub. Chinese food and good band plus two floorshows a night.
SHOPPING
Hong Kong is a free port and one of the most famous shopping centers in the world. Shops displaying the Hong Kong Tourist Association insignia guarantee quality. In many of the Chinese shops and markets you are expected to bargain—start at half the asking price.
Best Buys
Jewelry, wigs, made-to-measure clothes. If buying British woolens make sure they have the 'Made in Britain' label.
Shopping Areas
Victoria City : Cat Street and Ladder Street ( F2), -curios and antiques; Queen's Road Central (G4), Connaught Road (F3) and Des Voeux Road Central (F3-G4), boutiques, department stores and quality shops; D'Aguilar Street (G3) and Wyndham Street (G3) and Pottinger Street (G3), hip clothes and gifts. The south end of Nathan Road (F8) for everything possible from every kind of shop. The Ocean Terminal ( F6) has over 100 shops. Most big hotels have shopping arcades.
Among department stores are: Lane Crawford Ltd,
Des Voeux Road Central (F3);
Hong Kong Daimaru Department Store, Great George Street, (G12).
For antiques, Chinese crafts and curios there are: Chinese Merchandise Emporium, Queen's Road Central (G3);
Chinese Arts and Crafts (HK Ltd), Star House, Salisbury Road, Kowloon (F8) or Shell House. Queen's Road Central (G4); Dabera Ltd, Gloucester Building, Des Voeux Road Central (G4).
A Hong Kong must is Boutique de Chine, Lin Tin Gallery, Ocean Terminal, Kowloon (F6) and for jewelry, Wai Kee, Chater Road (G4) and Pedder Street (G4) and Sennet Freres, Pedder Street (G4).
Markets
Wanchai Open Market (H10) for farmers' produce.
oV uVuV,

Central Food Market (covered) on Queen's Road (F3).
Chinese Open Market (evenings) near the Macao Ferry Terminal (E2). Everything from food to suits. Temple Street Market, at night near the Yaumati Ferry Terminal (E4).
Shatin Fish Market, Shatin in the New Territories. Aberdeen Fish Market, Aberdeen Bay, Hong Kong.
MUSEUMS AND ART GALLERIES
City Hall Museum: Edinburgh Place (G5). Open 10—6 every day. Permanent collection of Chinese objects.
City Hall Art Gallery: (G5) Open 10—6 every day. Small permanent collection and frequent exhibitions. Tiger Balm Garden Jade Collection: This collection can be seen only by permit, obtainable from the offices of the Hong Kong Standard newspaper, 635 King's Road. North Point, Victoria.
Wax Museum: 4th floor. Star House, Kowloon. Characters from Chinese history modeled in wax.
SIGHTSEEING
Victoria City
Start at the Botanical Gardens in the Central District (H3) and go along Jackson Road, past Statue Square, to City Hall (G5). Continue along Connaught Road to Pedder Street (G4) and the main shopping area. This is both the quieter, older, governmental Hong Kong and the city of huge office towers. Note the General Post Office (G4)—one of the last examples of 'monumental colonial' architecture.
The Man Moa Temple, Hollywood Road, near Ladder Street (F2) is the largest Taoist temple in Victoria. At Causeway Bay (G12) rent a sampan for a tour around the harbor.
Two spots not to be missed on Hong Kong Island are Repulse Bay, a beautiful drive by bus or taxi for a swim and a drink at the regal old Repulse Bay Hotel and Aberdeen, the floating city of sampans and junks, restaurants and the fish market.
Kowloon
Start at the Star Ferry Terminal, between the railroad station and the Ocean Terminal (F7). Continue up Salisbury Road to the Peninsula Hotel (F8) then up Nathan Ro§d, two miles of shops and bright lights that cut Kowloon in half. Avoid the old walled city of Kowloom (no walls npw) north east of central Kowloon near the airport; this is supposedly the hideout for robbers, drug addicts and smugglers.
New Territories
From Kowloon the west road follows the coast with beautiful beaches and magnificent views to Castle Peak. Inland is the village of Yuen Long, at the head of an inlet, and nearby the picturesque walled village of Kam Tin. At Shatin is the Monastery of the 10,000 Buddhas. Do visit Lantau Island with Silvermine Bay (beach resort); Po Lin Monastery; Tung Gung Fort and the town of Tai 0. Go by ferry to Silvermine Bay from the Outlying Districts Ferry Service Pier near the vêhicular Ferry Pier, Victoria (F4). It will also take you to Cheung Chau Island, site of the annual Bun festival. Tap Mun Island is reached by ferry from Tai Po Kau on the railroad line.
Macao
A Portuguese colony about 40 miles from Hong Kong across the water. One of the oldest foreign settlements in South East Asia, it is famous for its white colonnaded mansions, outdoor restaurants and cobbled, tree-lined streets. See St Paul's Church built by Japanese Christians in the 17th century. You can gamble at two casinos, go greyhound racing and watch Portuguese bull fighting. Go by ferry from the Macao Ferry Pier Victoria (E2). It's a	hour journey, prices range from about
HK$15 for a single first-class cabin (about $40 for a double) to HK$50—60 for a de-luxe cabin. You can also go by Hydrofoil, which takes 75 minutes from the same pier. Fares here are HK$11—14 single on weekdays and slightly higher on weekends and holidays.
USEFUL TIPS
Tipping
Waiters: 10-15%
Taxi Drivers: 10% and never less than 200.
Hairdressers: 20%
Porters: HK$1 per bag.
Electricity: 220 volts, 50 cycles AC.
Banks: Hours are 10—3 Mon— Fri; 10—12 Sat.
Water : The supply tastes of chemicals. Hotels and restaurants have bottled water.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION Hong Kong Tourist Association, (tel : 3671111).
TOURS ON TAPE-THE BEST WAYTO SEE	
HONG KONG	
Here's a great new way to see Hong Kong—our Hong Kong Tour on Tape, one in a series of handy little cassettes that tell you all about the wonderful sights you're going to see. They're a big help in planning your trip and are an ideal talking guide while you're sightseeing. There are walking tours, driving tours, city	
tours and country tours.	Tours on Tape fit into any
standard machine and cost just $4.95. Locations covered	
in the series are:	
London	Hong Kong/Kowloon
English Countryside	Tokyo
Paris	El Morro Fortress
Versailles/	(also available in
Fontainebleau	Spanish)
Rome	Puerto Rico
Amsterdam	(also available in
Brussels	Spanish)
Frankfurt/Heidelberg	New York City —
Berlin (also available	5 Tours*
in German)	New York City*
Hawaii	Washington, DC* San Francisco*
* Also available in Spanish, French, German and Italian. To get these wonderful guides, stop in at any Pan Am office or return the order form with this map.	
sa)ON
>*m -tv* %

City Map and Guide