Timeless...a Constant Surprise
Tokyo’s pagodas and kimonos put you in a “Mikado” mood. Yet here are buildings as modern as those at home and women just as fashionably dressed.
And when you visit Ueno Park for the Cherry Blossoms and Imperial Library, the Zoological Garden and Japan’s largest art gallery, you’ll discover a monument to General Grant who visited here in ’79. Go to Asahusa Park for Japan’s version of Coney Island and you’ll find the amusements almost surrounded by the 7th Century Kamman Temple.
Since Tokyo’s the world’s 4th largest city you may take a tour to save time. But you’ll get around easily by electric tram or bus, by streetcar, rickshaw or underground railway. See what you can of the Imperial Palace and grounds, the Diet Building, and Allied Headquarters. Visit Hibiya Park for the azaleas in May or chrysanthemums in November. And don’t miss the exquisitely landscaped gardens. You’ll film all kinds of religious processions, join the fun at festivals and take in the modern plays and musical shows. Also the classical Japanese drama . . . the stylized Noh plays where actors wear masks . . . and the popular Kabuki plays with their
glamorous costumes and scenery. And there’s always the famous Ginza, Japan’s gayest and liveliest street. Here are the restaurants, movies and all the great stores where you’ll shop for silks and kimonos, prints and woodwork and world-renowned culture pearls.
A BLEND OF EAST AND WEST
In Tokyo and throughout Japan you can enjoy all the comforts of home in the first class hotels. Or, for a closeup of native life, stay at the well equipped Japanese inns. But if you do, be ready to sit cross-legged and sleep on soft pads stretched on the floor. You won’t find western style night clubs but you’ll dance to good bands at the large hotels and relax at the bars and cafes and tea houses where geisha girls perform. You’ll dine on western food everywhere and sip native green tea like everyone else. Try the native dishes, too. They serve them on a bewildering array of exquisite china. Try the sukiyaki, cooked before your

eyes . . . tempura, fresh prawns or fish fried in deep fat . . . and chawanmushi, chicken, beef and pork which they steam with egg custard in a bowl.
YOU’VE A DATE TO SEE THE DAIBUTSU
Explore Yokohama, Japan’s biggest port, if only to see the landscaped hills and valleys of 40-acre Sankei-en Garden bordering the sea. At Kamakura, climb inside the famous Daibutsu, the great 13th century bronze Buddha. You’ll pose for pictures here and at the nearby Hachiman Shrine, one of the oldest in Japan. Also, at Lake Hakone, to catch its famous reflection of the mighty Mt. Fuji.
Go high in the Hakone mountains to see Owakidani, the gorge called “Big Hell”—it’s worth the trip to see this inferno of crevices spouting jets of steam. And riding from Hakone to Atami, be ready for real sightseeing . . . the wonderful view of Fuji and the spectacular panorama of the 10 provinces surrounding the mountains of Hakone. You’ll never want to leave the Izu Peninsula. It’s Japan’s Riviera and here you can hunt and fish, golf at one of Kawana’s two courses or relax at the hot springs of scenic Atami, the year-round resort.
The fragile beauty of the formal gardens is breathtaking. This one is at Kyoto's Heian Shrine.
Seated cross-legged, you'll dine on such exotic Japanese dishes as sukiyaki.