7/1
P
H
THE MAGIC LANTERN LAND
I
When you land in Japan you step into a willowware pattern in technicolor . . . shrines and temples, landscaped gardens, Mt. Fuji and festivals! You’ll help celebrate everything from Buddha’s Birthday to Bean Throwing, Kite Flying and Viewing the Moon. During the Girl’s Festival in March, you’ll find homes displaying their beautiful dolls . . . and on the Boy’s Festival in May you’ll see Japan turn into an aquarium of fish-shaped pennants flapping from bamboo poles everywhere. You’ll join local festivals such as Nagasaki’s, with its spectacular parade of Oriental floats ... or Akita’s, watching children balancing enormous poles decorated with scores of lanterns. And happy confusion always, as celebrating youngsters zig-zag through crowded streets carrying miniatures of the local shrine. You’ll
%


never forget the Festival Nights, the beating drums and the exotic glow of hundreds of paper lanterns.
Seasons don’t matter in Japan. Come in spring when she’s literally afloat on a tinted cloud, celebrating her famous Cherry Blossoms. Or in autumn, w-hen she’s a bouquet of chrysanthemums and blazing foliage. Come in summer, after rice planting, when she’s noisy with spectacular fireworks along the Sumida River and her beaches and mountain resorts are lively with vacation fun. Or in winter, when you’ll ski, skate, relax at the hot springs and join the long New Year Festival, eating mochi rice cakes and toasting with otosa, the sweet spicy wine. Come on business, too, now that her expanding industries are offering the opportunity of the decade. Come direct, or stop off on a Round-the-world-trip. You’ll be able to include many of the fabulous places and sights mentioned inside, and shop everywhere for valuable souvenirs at fantastically low prices. For Japan’s only about the size of Montana or Paraguay. And your Clipper gets you there and back so quickly you can stay longer . . . see and do much more. And for less money, too.
Copyright IQ52, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Clipper and Sleeperette, Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Of.
I....'
