JAPAN’S NEXT DOOR TO BOTH AMERICAS
When You FLY THE CLIPPER
Whether you’re an experienced air traveler and measure distance by hours instead of miles ... or you simply insist on solid comfort whenever you go places . . . you’ll want to fly to Japan by Clipper. Flights are so frequent and you’re there so quickly you can stay longer and do much more in Japan. And it doesn’t matter whether you start from North or South America. You’ll cross the Pacific on “The President”, Pan American’s luxurious Double-Decked “Strato” Clipper service. You’ll relax in the lower deck lounge that’s so popular for get-acquainted chats over refreshments. And only Pan American can give you — at no extra charge, incidentally — its exclusive Sleeperette service . . . your chair opens up to full bed length and has a special extension to support your legs. Or if you prefer, select, over certain routes, a longer-than-pullman berth, at slight extra charge.
Going by Clipper means carefree travel. You’re “on vacation” all the way. Clipper companions are congenial
and no chat or card game on earth can equal one high in the sky. You’ll be busy with your camera, too. And you’ll read and daydream, with your big armchair adjusting easily to the most comfortable angle. You have cabin
attendants to wait on you, to bring magazines or snacks, pillows and blankets. And you’ll enjoy your choice of cocktails or refreshing wines and delicious meals en route. Yet there’s no extra charge — no tipping either. Which means Clippers not only get you to Japan more quickly and comfortably . . . they save you money, too. You can save even more on the low tourist rates or on one of the economical Clipper Cruises. And you can always stop off en route. In fact, you can continue around the world by Clipper, enjoying stopovers whenever you wish en route. And do it for little more than your round trip fare to Japan! So — why not start planning now so you can head for Japan soon?
YOU’VE (TB BIG REASONS FOR GOING NOW
1.	Japan’s rapidly recovering industries are reaching out for round-the-world markets, making Japan the Jfi destination right now for alert buyers and sales representatives, exporters and importers alike.
2.	You can leave from any one of the 4 convenient Gateways . . . Seattle or Portland, San Francisco or Los Angeles . . .just a short hop by domestic carriers from the airport nearest your home.
3.	Only Pan American offers you Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers on every Tokyo Flight from all 4 West Coast Gateways.
4.	Only the Clipper permits you to stop over in Hawaii to enjoy a Hawaiian Holiday en route to Tokyo.
5.	The infinite variety of valuable souvenirs are priced amazingly low and you can bring back $500 worth duty free, if you’re a U. S. citizen out of the U. S. more than 12 days (allowed every 6 months) — $200 for any lesser period.
6.	Only the Clipper can give you Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette service . . . at no extra charge.
ONLY PAN AMERICAN OFFERS THE OKINAWA-TOKYO AND BRAZIL PLAN
In order to be of the greatest service wherever possible, Pan American inaugurates special transportation arrangements in various parts of the world. Typical is the Okinawa-Tokyo and Brazil Plan which simplifies and streamlines the transportation of Japanese speaking people, especially those traveling between South America and Japan. Any P.A.A. office or representative of Pan American World Airways will be glad to give you full details.
In addition, of course, Pan American Clippers can whisk you from South America direct to the Los Angeles Gateway, as well as to other U. S. points. And you can enjoy stopovers ... in the U. S. or at other points along the way ... if you desire.
Pa/v American World Airways
(^!he System of fle^Slyiruj Clippers
