colorful
is proud of her past
Kyoto, the Classic City, was capital of Japan for a thousand years. And she keeps reminding you of it. With her famous Golden Pavilion, ornate Nipju Detached Palace and Emperor’s residence that housed more than a score of rulers. And with exquisitely landscaped gardens, too, some of them 5 and 6 centuries old. But most of all, Kyoto’s proud of her shrines and temples. Once she had 3000. Of the thousand remaining, don’t miss Chion-in, her largest and most famous . . . Higashi Hongan-ji, the most elaborate Buddhist Temple in all Japan . . . and the 700-year-old Sanjusanging where, if you’ve the time, you can count over a thousand statues of Kammon, the Buddhist deity. No doubt you’ll find a festival going on when you arrive. Kyoto’s always celebrating something, like the 8-day summertime Gion Festival when she becomes a
rainbow of ornamented carts, or the festivals of the famous Heian-jingu Shrine among the wistaria and azaleas of Okasaki Park. Visit Marayama Park to see the 400-year-old cherry tree, especially if it’s in blossom and illuminated at night.
Yet for all her worship of the past, Kyoto hasn’t forgotten the present. You’ll discover that in her air-conditioned hotel and when you watch her artisans weaving the silks and creating the lacquer and cloisonne ware, the bronzes and porcelains you’ll buy in the fine Kyoto shops. Don’t leave before “shooting” the Hozu Rapids nearby — everyone seems to enjoy the ride through the picturesque
gorges. And for an unforgettable view of the city and countryside, cable car up Mt. Hiei. Or try the platform in front of Kijomizu Temple. It’s on a cliff and on the way up you can browse and pose for pictures on “Teapot Lane”, the street lined with crockery shops.
VENICE IN A KIMONO
Osaka’s a city of canals and bridges. You’ll concentrate on Shinsaibashi, a narrow picturesque street of shops, restaurants and theatres. Here’s the famous Bunrakuza Theatre where you’ll see the amazing puppets that take 3 people to operate. You’ll explore Osaka Castle from the donjon, where you’ll view the city, to the garden,-where you’ll pose beside the tiny ponds covered with miniature bridges. Look for the gigantic granite stones in the castle wall — some are big enough to cover half a tennis court.
Outside a Japanese jactory you li shop for inexpensive gifts such as colorful lacquerware.
You can golf on any of 4 courses and then head for Takara-zuka, the nearby resort with its hot springs, opera house and Japan’s largest dance hall. And be sure to see Minahe’s 5000 acres of plum trees, unforgettable if you see them blossom, a month before the cherry trees.
THERE’S THE REST OF JAPAN, TOO . . .
. . . from the 17 National Parks to the rugged Japan Alps where scores of peaks tower 8000 feet or more. At Kobe, you’ll golf at nearby Mt. Rokko in summer and ski in winter, watch artists paint the world-famous Satsuma porcelain and relax at the spas and beaches. At the scenic Inland Sea, you’ll find Miyajima. See its “Floating Shrine” by moonlight and you’ll never forget it. In Nara, the cradle of Japan’s culture, you’ll find Horyu-ji, the oldest wooden building in the world. Also, Japan’s largest park. Here hundreds of the tame “holy” deer roam at will and you’ll see them come running when signalled with a conch. See Kofuku-ji, the classical 5-story pagoda ... the 48-ton bell and world’s largest Buddha in Todai-ji Temple . . . and pose among the brilliant vermilion corridors of Kasuga Shrine.
You’ll shop in Nagoya, relax at Gamagori beach and see how they catch fish at Gifu with trained birds. Take in Toba on beautiful Shima Peninsula to see the famous “women-in-white” dive for pearls at Mikimoto’s Cultured Pearl Farm . . . You’ll explore Hiroshima’s ruins and, at Nagasaki, alive with romance and legends from Madame Butterfly to St. Francis Xavier, you’ll shop for tortoise-shell ware. Not far away are Beppu Spa’s bubbling “hell holes” and, in Aso National Park, active volcanoes and the world’s largest volcanic crater.
North of Tokyo in Nikko, is the famous Toshogu Shrine, with its elaborately carved Yomeimon Gate and red lacquered Sacred Bridge. And, in the mountain streams of Nikko National Park, the best trout fishing in Japan . . . You’ll find Kegon Falls twice as high as Niagara, at Lake Chuzenji, the lively summer resort. Be sure to explore the Fuji lakes and, if you’ve the energy, climb great Mt. Fuji with a horse and guide for a breathtaking sunrise 12,000 feet in the air. Head for Hokkaido, the northernmost island, to see Ainu aborigines live their own strange way and Sapporo, the city planned by American engineers. Up here you can ski and, at Jozankei, one of Japan’s best spas, bathe in the outdoor pool even in midwinter.