TAX FREE CARS
If you are thinking of purchasing a new car, did you know it could save you cash to buy it while you are in Great Britain? Every year, thousands of overseas visitors make use of the Personal Export Scheme under which they can take delivery of new cars free of tax.
This is a particularly attractive idea if you are staying in the UK for any length of time, as you can use your car for up to twelve months in Great Britain without being liable to tax —and you don't even have to pay for the Road Fund Licence, normally £40 a year to permanent residents. If you wish you need not use the car in the UK at all, but arrange for it to be waiting for you when you get home.
Main qualification for using the scheme is that you are ‘principally resident outside the UK.’ This means that you must have lived outside Great Britain for at least 365 days during the last two years. If the car has a tax-free value in excess of £2,000, it has to be paid for with currency from outside the country.
Of course, with varying tariffs and currency values, high freight charges and import tax liability in some countries, using the
scheme may not always bring a saving. Generally speaking, it is no longer a viable proposition for visitors from European countries, but those from the Far East, Middle East, Africa, Malta and Cyprus may well find that ‘buying in Britain’ pays dividends. However, if the car of your choice is assembled in your own country, it will probably prove to be cheaper to postpone your purchase until you get back.
Most motor manufacturers and importers in Britain have special centres in London specialising in personal export. Their staff are experts and will be able to give you the financial facts as well as make all necessary arrangements. They will also be conversant with regulations or requirements of your own country—special lights, left-hand-drive, low compression engine, etc. They normally carry a selection of cars specially earmarked for export, so you should not have to wait long for delivery.
If you buy Ford or Chrysler there is a real bonus if you choose to have the car delivered at home. You can hire a car and use it in Europe for up to twelve months— including comprehensive insurance in Britain and unlimited mileage—for as little as £1 a day.