WELCOME TO LONDON IN JUBILEE YEAR
And welcome to IN LONDON. Whether this is your first or fifty-first visit, you will find something new to do, to see and discover. IN LONDON aims to help make your visit a truly enjoyable and memorable one.
London has so much to offer you —famous stores where you can buy anything from ear-plugs to elephants, small specialist shops where you can buy beautiful gifts, a huge number of restaurants and bistros with an enormous range of cuisine, some of the finest gaming clubs and brightest night-life in the world.
IN LONDON will help you make the most of everything London has to offer. Keep it with you and see London through our eyes — we think you'll like it.
H.R.H. Queen Elizabeth II celebrates twenty-five years on the throne this year, in which time together with her family she has brought much pleasure to many people the world over. 1977 is Jubilee Year and a time when we can relive the memories and also look forward to many more happy years for our monarch.
Shopping Around	4
London Town Sightseeing Guide	22
Nightspots, clubs, discotheques, jazz clubs	28
Gaming in London, gaming clubs and casinos	30
Eating out, restaurants and cafes	34
Shop duty free, overseas duty free concessions	42
Theatres, concerts and cinemas	46
Tax free cars	49
Getting about, travel in London	52
Tips to travellers	53
Crisis	53
Central London landmarks	54
London car distributors	55
Currency Guide	56
Eating out extra	58
Editor: Paul Raven Designers: Caroline Brooks, Olwyn Phillips Advertising Manager: Jane Ledingham
Printed by:S. Sidders & Son Ltd., 111-115 Salusbury Road, London NW6 6RJ Distribution: Worldwide, through the world's largest airlines
Editorial and advertisement offices: Parkway Publications Limited, Linburn House, 350 Kllburn High Road, London NW6 2QJ. Tel: 01-328 3344/7
IN LONDON 1977 VOLUME 6 NO 1 No part of this magazine may be reproduced without prior written permission from the Publishers. The greatest of care has been taken to ensure accuracy but the Publishers cannot accept responsibility for errors or omissions.