DINING OUT
Eating out can be one of the most exciting adventures for the visitor to London. Since London can offer the cooking styles of almost any counry in the world, it is difficult to decide where to start. A good idea, for the serious gourmet, would be to purchase a Food Guide. There are several publications which any good newsagent or bookstall will stock. However, a quick walk around the Soho area (between Oxford Street and Shaftesbury Avenue) reveals dozens of restaurants. ‘Isow's’ in Brewer Street, for instance, offers excellent service, spacious and elegant decor and exquisite food and wines. The menu is international with a Jewish/continental bias. For English food, 'Rules’ in Maiden Lane, WC2, is hard to beat. 'A I’Ecu de France’ in Jermyn Street, SW1, offers a French menu
par excellence. In Beak Street, W1, you will find delicious Pekingese cuisine at the ‘Gallery Rendezvous’. If your fancy turns towards the more adventurous then try an Indian meal at 'The Ganges’ in Gerrard Street, W1. This street also has countless authentic Chinese restaurants. For a Greek meal, The White Tower’ in Percy Street, W1, is a good choice. ‘Hiroko’ in St Christophers’ Place, W1, is an exotic excursion into Japanese food and charm, while ‘Alvaro’ in the King’s Road, SW3, will serve Italian specialities among celebrities. A very fine Fish restaurant which incid-ently, owns its own oyster beds is ‘Bentleys’, in Swallow Street, W1. The list could be endless but we have been very selective and can recommend the above suggestions. We wish you ‘bon appetit!’
Key
L Lunch D Dinner T	Telephone
VM Visitors'Menu served.
Prices
The restaurants are coded as follows: A	Over £6
B	£3-£6
C	Under £3
X	Table d'hôte only.
¡-Where table d'hôte meals are provided
as well as a la carte, the prices quoted are normally the minimum chargeable, e g. L75p means that table d'hote lunch is from 75p. These prices include service charge and Value Added Tax. Telephone numbers shown are the all-figure dialling code. When dialling from outside London, prefix the number with 01 -.
The designation VM after an individual listing indicates that the restaurant serves a Visitors' Menu. This is a
scheme launched by the British Tourist Authority, and restaurants which have joined the venture undertake to serve a three course meal, Inclusive of coffee or tea, tax, service and cover charge for an all-in (and sometimes bargain) price. Drinks are not Included.
More and more restaurants are joining the scheme which has a big benefit for the visitor—he knows immediately the amount of money he will be spending on a meal.	►