GAMING IN
An exclusive look at the capital's top Gaming Clubs and Casinos
London is fast becoming the most sophisticated gaming centre of the world. Rather a sweeping statement but nevertheless a true one. Its gaming tables nightly lure players from all over the world. The reason for this is that the odds of winning in England are the best In the world.
In 1968 new gaming laws were introduced in Britain and now all gaming is regulated by the Gaming Board of Great Britain. This body is responsible for the licensing of casinos and gaming clubs, as well as the staff of the clubs. Croupiers undergo rigorous training and must hold a Gaming Board License.
Gaming clubs in London welcome visitors from overseas but the law states that no one may enter a casino without being a member or a member's personal guest. Application for membership must be made at least 48 hours before gaming. This law together with others including that no cabaret acts, live music and dancing are allowed in casinos were laid down specifically to protect people from losing money they had no intention of losing in the first place.
The most popular games played in London casinos are French and American Roulette, Baccarat, Craps and Chemin De Fer. Backgammon, Poker, Kalooki and Punto Banco can also be found In a selection of casinos. Stakes go from around a minimum of 25p to a maximum of £2,000 depending on the game and the house rules.
The superb thing about gaming in London is the fact that it can be done in so many different atmospheres. Obviously ambience is of prime importance to the gambler and this varies enormously. Crockford's is elegant and refined and is frequently the meeting place of celebrities of all kinds. The club is in a beautiful Nash House of the Regency Period just a short distance from Buckingham Palace. Magnificent ceilings and exquisite fireplaces of marquetry, marble and enamel plus the ten foot chandelier
containing over ten thousand pieces of crystal have helped to make sure that this building is preserved as an historic monument. The restaurant on the ground floor otters a wide choice of excellent cuisine and is highly recommended.
The Curzon House Club is intimate and charming and quietly relaxing, unlike the Palm Beach which has a busy, continental atmosphere. A short walk from the Palm Beach is the bustling International Sporting Club. Specialities of the house include American Roulette, Blackjack and a top restaurant.
The Victoria Sporting Club has a full range of gambling facilities and caters for the visitor to Britain by offering free membership. Its restaurant is well worth a visit and you certainly won't be gambling if you sample its delicious cuisine.
The world famous Playboy Club with gaming on three floors has a much more modern, trendy atmosphere than most London casinos and with three separate restaurants has an extensive selection of food. The club section of the Playboy, which is located next door to the casino, features a pulsating discotheque plus two more restaurants. All food and most of the gaming is presented by the traditional bunny girls, and this in Itself .makes a visit to the Playboy a most pleasant one.
The Park Lane Casino offers gaming in palatial surroundings. This striking club is a firm favourite with Middle East visitors to London.
The Hertford Club is a regular meeting place for world celebrities including Omar Sharif and Telly Savalas. Its elegant decor make It a delightful casino to visit.
Ladbrokes claim to offer the highest limits in gaming in their private room. They also offer a high standard of cooking by Jean-Pierre Brichot, who is one of the world's leading chefs.
*
*
