® Capital of Country
(tyuttfaty
'Jtatunat “TVeaitJt
Argentina, while farthest from the U. S. geographically of any Latin American nation, is perhaps closest to the U. S. in many ways. Her culture arid her population stem almost entirely from European sources. In education, in ideals, and to some extent economically she is much like our own nation. In seasons, however, she is the reverse of the U. S.; Summer here means Winter
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
in the Argentine. Argentina has 36% of the area but only 10°/c of the population of the United States.
She enjoys the advantages and disadvantages of an economy largely agricultural, with most of her great ivealth coming from stock raising and processing and from grains and other crops.
The varieties of climate and terrain (mountains, plains, forests, and a 1600 mile seacoast) contribute to the diversity of Argentina’s natural resources. Aviation makes possible swift transportation and communication between othenvise widely separated regions of this nation.
BioRE OF THE WORLD’S beef and corn for export comes from Argentina, commercially the most important nation in South America, than from anywhere else in the world. At times she has exceeded even Canada as a wheat exporter. Almost 100% of Argentina’s exports are agricultural and pastoral. Her interests in the markets abroad for the products of her fields is vital and understandable.
R^MPAS HAVE RICH SOIL • One-fourth of the country (250,000 square miles) is pampas—flat plains with rich soil a foot thick—the source of most of the nation’s wealth. From this area alone comes three-fourths of the world’s volume of international trade in flaxseed and quebracho (needed for tanning), two-thirds of the corn and linseed, one-third of the meat, hides, skins, one-fifth of the wheat and flour.
On estancias (ranches), watched over by colorful gauchos (cowboys) of the pampas, graze most of Argentina’s 33,-000,000 head of cattle.
In Patagonia, in the South, are rolling plateaus on which millions of sheep graze for mile on mile. Great agricultural fairs and stock shows are held yearly to display the finest specimens.
While Argentina can claim to be largely self-sufficient in foodstuffs, beverages, cement, furniture, glassware, soaps, tobacco, apparel and shoes, she needs several important imports. These include coal, oil for fuel and power, iron and steel for construction, automobiles, trucks, accessories, minerals, agricultural and industrial machinery, radio and electrical equipment, yarns, window glass, chemical and pharmaceutical products.
Argentina stands high on the list of Latin American nations both as a market for U. S. exports and a supplier of U. S. needs. Our imports from Argentina during our first full year of war (1942) were 268% greater than during the last full year of peace (1938). U. S. exports to Argentina, on the other hand, declined only 17%, despite diversion of shipping and inability to supply certain items needed by Argentina.
Of South American nations only Brazil exceeded Argentina in value of trade with the U. S. in 1942.
More than half of the $2,600,000,000 total accumulated gold and foreign exchange balances held at the end of 1943 by South American nations since the war, due to a "favorable” balance of trade, was held by Argentina. This represents a great backlog of purchasing power for peacetime buying in world markets.
Buenos aires the center • The most important
commercial, industrial and financial center as well as the
Copyright 1945, Pan American Airways, Inc.

Gaucho and his horse watch a herd of prime "beef on the hoof.’’
Examining beef carcasses in an up-to-date packing plant.
From the semi-arid Andes foothills of the Northwest come limited amounts of other minerals (gold, silver, copper, granite), fruits, and wine from grapes so famous they have been exported to the United States. Irrigation helps this production, and plans for developing potential water power sites would further increase this yield as well as aid production of electricity.
While mining as an industry is of minor importance, Argentina possesses a number of minerals. Gold, silver, copper, and tin are commercially profitable; in addition there are deposits of manganese, tungsten, lead, zinc, salt, borate, and limestone.
In the humid, forested, subtropical North, sugar, rice, tobacco, quebracho extract, yerba mate, and forest products are collected. Eighty per cent of Argentine cotton is grown in the Chaco region of the North. There are extensive timber resources, about 123,000,000 acres, here and elsewhere in the nation, as yet little exploited. Three-fourths of the world’s quebracho trees are thought to grow in Argentina.
I^DTENTIAL POWER SOURCE '• At the mighty Iguaza Falls where Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay meet, the water power may be harnessed to turn the wheels of industry, perhaps even 800 miles away in Buenos Aires. In the past the distance separating water power sources from industrial centers has been a drawback to development of the former.
For 1,000 miles the three rivers which, combined, form the Plata river system (the Paraguay, the Uruguay, and the Parana) the main artery of international traffic, are navigable. Much inland commerce, particularly to and from Paraguay’s capital of Asuncion, moves over this waterway system.
Whaling in the cold waters off the coast, among the principal whaling fields in the world, is so important an industry that it has been carried on despite the war.
Argentina’s most-important industries include sugar refining, textile and shoe manufacturing, meat packing and refrigeration, tanning, iron and steel foundries and the making of electric light and radio bulbs, matches, soaps and cosmetics, cement, bricks, glass, tires, paper and food products.
Canning a variety of meats, preparatory to export.
and baled'for mark el Prested
Broad avenues lead from the imposing Capitol, in Buenos Aires.
nation’s capital is the great city of Buenos Aires, largest in Latin America and center of one of the most-populated areas in South America. Here live one of every four Argentines. Miles of docks, grain elevators, packing houses, and oil storage tanks line the banks of the Rio de la Plata, making Buenos Aires one of the greatest ports in the world. Other ports of importance are Rosario, La Plata and Santa Fe, the last 150 miles upriver from the open sea!
Fanning out from Buenos Aires and connecting it with the Territories is a network of airlines and railroads built largely with foreign capital and technical assistance. Pan American World Airways routes link the chief cities and connect Argentina with all her Sister Republics.
Encouragement is being given to experimentation in local production of coal and petroleum to ease the necessity of relying on imports for these items. Government-owned wells are being worked in the Comodoro Rivadavia area of the Southeast. Petroleum is the one large mineral resource of Argentina and, while present production supplies about 65% of domestic needs, greater output is expected to follow when more equipment becomes available. Present known coal deposits are limited and generally of low quality, so that Argentina has become the chief coal-importing country on the Continent.
the refrigerated hold of an ocean-going ship.