YOUR PRIVATE	GRACIOUS SERVICE
RETREAT	WORLDWIDE
Whether you travel on Pan Am for business or pleasure, you want every trip to be easy and relaxed . . . right from the ground up. No long lines. No noisy crowds. No undue pressure.
That’s why we created the exclusive comforts and exceptional service of Clipper Club. From the moment you step inside, you’ll appreciate our very special Clipper Club amenities, including comfortable armchairs, plush carpeting and a sophisticated, congenial atmosphere.
Clipper Club is the perfect place to await your Pan Am flight.
So whether you need a convenient environment to catch up on last minute work and conduct important business, or a comfortable oasis for reading, chatting or simply relaxing,
Pan Am’s Clipper Club has just the right setting for you.
Pan Am’s network of Clipper Clubs spans 20 major cities around the world. And we’re continually upgrading our Clubs and improving our services to assure you the very best quality in each and every location.
While we plan to continually expand the list of Clipper Club locations, you can currently visit our Clubs in the following Pan Am cities:
Berlin
Buenos Aires
Caracas
Detroit
Frankfurt
Hamburg
London
Los Angeles
Mexico City
Miami
Munich
New York (2 ciubs at jfk)
Orlando
Paris
Rio de Janeiro Rome
San Francisco Santiago
Washington, D.C. (Duiies) Zurich
Note that drinks are available to all Clipper Club members in our Clubs outside the United States on a complimentary basis. In our U.S. clubs, there is a charge for drinks.
AUTOMATIC WORLDPASS MEMBERSHIP
As a Clipper Club member, you will enjoy automatic enrollment in Pan Am WorldPass .. .
The Richest Frequent Traveler Program In The World.SM It’s your chance to enjoy Pan Am’s unique comforts and convenient flights to worldwide destinations while earning some of the most generous awards for domestic and international air travel. Other benefits for WorldPass members include exciting awards from luxury hotels and international car rental companies, distinctive in-flight menu selections, special airport check-in facilities and more.