JOIN US!
ANNUAL OR THREE-YEAR MEMBERSHIP
For only $150 for an Annual Membership or $390 for a Three-Year Membership, plus a $25 initiation fee, you can join this very special association of world travelers. As a member of this renowned Club, you’ll be able to take advantage of the many membership privileges reserved for you. You’ll receive two handsome silver luggage tags, embossed with your name and membership number, along with your personalized Clipper Club membership card.
LIFETIME MEMBERSHIP
Invest $1500 plus a $25 initiation fee just once and receive a Lifetime Membership in the world’s most exclusive airline Club.
This membership entitles you to special privileges and Club amenities for the rest of your life. Your distinguished credentials will include an elegant embossed leather passport wallet, two attractive gold luggage tags embossed with your name and membership number and a gold Lifetime Membership card.
Clipper Club offers the perfect environment to await your flight and begin your Pan Am experience. And, you can choose the plan that suits you best. Apply today!
SENIOR CITIZEN LIFETIME MEMBERSHIP
Invest $675 plus a $25 initiation fee just once and you’ll receive all Lifetime Membership benefits at this special money-saving rate. You must be 60 years of age or older and submit a copy of a photo ID containing your date of birth along with your application.
ADDITIONAL MEMBERSHIP FOR YOUR SPOUSE
Your wife or husband can enjoy the pleasures of a Spouse Membership in the Clipper Club in the same category as your own membership for a small additional charge. Simply complete the appropriate portion of your application. We will issue your spouse a personal membership card at one of the following money-saving prices:
Annual Spouse Membership:	$ 45
Three-Year Spouse Membership:	100
Lifetime Spouse Membership:	350
Senior Lifetime Spouse Membership:	200
Clipper Club Rules
•	Club rooms are available to active members, accompanying immediate family or guests. Guests are limited to two. A card is available for the member’s spouse at a small additional fee. This entitles the spouse to visit the Club rooms. Children are welcome when accompanied by the member or the spouse.
•	On those occasions when Clubs are crowded, it might become necessary to restrict admittance to those members who are traveling on the same day.
•	Membership dues are not refundable.
•	Membership cards must be presented upon each visit and are not transferable to other family members or business associates.
•	Sorry, but pets are not permitted, except those which are carried at all times in a pet container and for which a cabin reservation is held for that day’s flight.
We ask that you please not bring food or beverages into the Club rooms.
To maintain the exclusive atmosphere of the Clubs, members are asked to wear neat travel attire in keeping with good taste. Very casual and athletic attire such as jogging suits, tank tops, shorts, bare feet and the like are not permitted.
Where size permits, each Club will have a designated no-smoking area. Members are requested to observe these areas.
Minimum membership age is 21.
Individual Club operating times are related to local flight schedules and are subject to change without notice.
Rules and amenities are subject to change without notice.