curls onto su»-*-«-

Looking for “different” thrills and gay times ... or just seeking rest and relaxation? In fascinating-only hours away via Flying Clipper, you are fancy^ee. This travel treasure chest, larger than the •continental U. S. A., bounding half of South Amer-'it^’^^opulation and area, offers everything from curious cosmopolitan city life to spine-tingling ‘jungle adventuring.
« Accommodations. Larger cities have commo-
dious, palatial hotels, with a gamut of accommodations to fit your tastes. Rates* are comparatively ; moderate. A number feature superb cuisines and gay nightclubs.	" ~
Delectable Foods. Taste-tempting Brazilian cooking shows both the Portuguese and French touch. For spicy gastronomic adventure try the ¿jttle churrascarias (barbecue pavilions) all over Rio. Or, sip a cup of steaming fàjezinho, (delicious thick cof- * fee) only a penny, Brazilians’ national “pick-me-up.* Sports and Amusements. On Riot jn-#
*For specific rate#a!
ravel «Agent
Pax	Aulerlcax World
matched beaches (all of which are public) you can breast foaming breakers or bask in the sun, cradled on bosomy white sand. Between exhilarating dips, join a fast game of pateca, a sort of badminton without racquets. There’s enough championship yachting, horseracing, futebol (soccer), polo, tennis, golf, even ice-skating, to more than fill your hours. For sporting blood, there are the thrills of watching sleek horses thundering intoj a home stretch. Big-game hunting includes jaguar^ hunts and a yearly alligator roundup on the Amazon delta guaranteed to set your pulse pounding. Even more thrilling—a ride through the foaming rapids high above the roaring falls at Iguassu.
Shopping. On Avenida Rio Branco, Rio’s Fifth Avenue, a shoppers’ paradise, are tempting, irresistible bargains in useful and ornamental articles fnade from rare and precious hardwoods, giant butterfly wings, horn and tortoise shell. You’ll feast your eyes on gorgeous orchids, gaily-costumed dolls, exquisite laces, topazes, aquamarines, diamonds. Local curios and ancient handicrafts can be discovered in quaint local markets. S i dffcworth can be brought to the U. S. A. duty free.
Commerce and Industry. You can watch coffee growing on giant plantations and, yr SantoSk
visit the Exchange where most of the world’s coffee is marketed. Amazing Volta Redonda, Latin America’s largest steel mill, must be seen to be believed.
In the south you can stop in the .	hospitable “gaucho” country of
Rio Grande do Sul, where millions of glistening cattle fatten on the lush plains. The amazing “treasure box” State of Minas Gerais (with its capital, Bello Horizonte, planned in detail before a plank was laid!) has gold, diamonds, and a solid mountain range of iron ore!
How to Travel. Pan American World Airways connects Brazil with Uruguay, Argentina, northern South America and the U. S. A., while Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra), affiliate of Pan American World Airways, flies between Brazil and West Coast countries. Panair do Brasil, another affiliate, provides excellent domestic air connections—also serves Paraguay. There is good urban and inter-urban surface transportation (including cab service) in most cities.
On Entry. U. S. citizens as ( temporary visitors entering Brazil require a passport and visa. For details and other travel documentation, inquire of your Travel Agent or nearest Pan American World Airways System office.