... Or Let Pat and Burtt Dutcher of Darien, Conn.,
1. “Without change of plane we flew overnight from New York to Nice on the famous Riviera. (Pan American is the only transatlantic airline offering this service.) It took us only 20 hours in a luxurious Super-6 Clipper. Pat said it was so comfortable she felt as if we were riding on a giant cloud. Both of us fell in love at first sight with the tiny seaport of Villefranche, above.”
2. “And then on to Rome, where ancient grandeur and the most modern buildings are often found side by side. Here, in the Roman Forum, history came to life for both of us as we made out the name CAESAR, cut in stone. Pat commented on the cleanliness of this great city.”
3. “Outdoor cafes like this are typical of the daily life of modern Rome. Here at the Cafe Passetto you can watch people, scooters, bikes and stylish Italian sports cars go by.”
4. “This shot of Pat is one of my favorites. Our tour included the steamer trip over to Capri and one morning we walked down to the little pebbly beach at Piccolo Marina. Without being able to speak a word of English, this old fisherman explained to Pat, with his hands, how he uses his nets.”
How you can make the Grand Tour of Europe
in 21 days for -1,02715
*
You go one way—return the other
Your Travel Agent and your local Pan American office know the Pan Am Holiday shown at the left as AK-800. Cost is $1027.15« or $1118,« depending on whether you fly home on The Rainbow (Tourist) or the deluxe President. Many other Holidays to choose from.
«Above prices based on each of two persons traveling together. All prices subject to change without notice.
Thanks to die speed of the Flying Clippers, you spend only 44 hours in die air and have nineteen days for sightseeing.
What Pat and Burtt Dutcher did, you can plan to do. By acting now and choosing a 2-week, 3-week or 1-month Pan Am Holiday, you’ll know in advance that your round-trip air transportation, hotel reservations and many sight-seeing tours have all been arranged . . . Furthermore you’ll know the cost of your trip before you leave the United States!
Pan Am Holidays to Europe begin as low as $618.90* for 2 weeks. For complete details call your Travel Agent or the nearest Pan American office.
«Plus tax.
5. “In Paris, Pat was thrilled by the Schiaparelli gown you see being modeled above. We couldn’t afford to buy it ($2000!) but Pat said just being allowed to look at it was worth the trip to Europe! That’s Napoleon’s column in the Place Venddme you see out the window—the famous Ritz bar is just across the street.”
6. “It was at the Moulin Rouge that Pat said, 'This Paris grows on you. I am beginning to understand why all songwriters and poets wax lyrical when Paris is mentioned.’ (I like the place myself!) The French certainly know how to cook a filet and Pan American was right to choose meals by Maxim’s for their Clippers. By Clipper, you know, you’re only 15V4 hours from New York.”
7. “This is the way Paris made Pat feel— even in the daytime! She thought the Eiffel Tower was really magnificent and its top was so high it seemed to us to sway when clouds crossed behind it on a windy day.”
8. “Last of all, London, with its great dignity and majesty—its feeling of permanence. Here we were allowed to watch a Corporal inspecting two of the Horse Guards at Whitehall. 'Fabulous trip’, said Pat, as we climbed aboard our ‘Strato’ Clipper to fly back to New York. ‘I’ve never had such a wonderful time.’”
t“All the way to Europe and back we had something
which is important when you’re flying the Atlantic... the priceless knowledge that we were aboard
Kfc.	•	O
|	the Worlds Most Experienced Airline”
Morepeopk-by far-fly to Europe on
Pæsî Æmkrîcw