LONDON •<
•/BRUSSELS
Discover PORTUGAL and your
Castle in SPAIN 3
See BELGIUM and m SWITZERLAND as well as ENGLAND FRANCE & ITALY
SCANDINA in 2 Weeks
Take in 6 Countries in 23 Days
These
Pan Am Holidays Are Typical. . .
• BARCELONA
•^montreux“
SEVILLE
Do it in 30 days. Clipper from New York to Paris ... 8 exciting days in France, 5 of them in carefree Paris. You’ll visit Avignon and Marseilles, the French Riviera and Nice, with time for Monte Carlo too. During your days in Italy you’ll concentrate on the Italian Riviera, Genoa, Milan and the Hill Towns ... on Florence, Venice and lovely Lake Como. You’ll have 2 days for Lucerne and the spectacular Alps . . . then Alsace Lorraine, 2 days for Brussels. Wind up with 5 thrilling days in London, with time for Oxford and the Shakespeare country. Return from London by Clipper.
BALEARIC
ISLANDS
S^^GRAN ADA MAL AG A
You’ll start and end in New York, crossing the Atlantic by Clipper via London. While in the fascinating Land of the Midnight Sun, you’ll stay 2 nights at Oslo which nestles so picturesquely at the end of a typical Norway fjord. You’ll have 6 wonderful days in Sweden, spending 2 nights at modern Gothenburg, where you’ll explore the older section in a colorful horse-drawn carriage, and 4 nights at Stockholm. Your Denmark headquarters for 4 days will be Copenhagen, the gayest capital in Northern Europe.
You’ll leave New York by Clipper ... go to Paris and return home from London, with 2 days and 3 nights at each of these great capitals. You’ll spend 6 unforgettable days at the famous resorts, Montreaux on Lake Geneva and Interlaken and Lucerne in Switzerland . . . and 3 days and 4 nights in Germany, staying overnight at Cologne, Wiesbaden and romantic old Heidelberg. You’ll have time, too, for Belgium and the Netherlands, staying overnight at Brussels and Amsterdam, before heading for England and home.
. . . of the many available for “doing” Europe. As you read about them you’ll see how much you can do . . . how many places you can visit in Europe ... in just a few short weeks. It’s a real convenience, having all travel arrangements made for you in advance like this . . . knowing you’ll be able to relax in Europe and enjoy yourself. And it’s so inexpensive! Just imagine the Dutchers taking that wonderful 21-day trip described inside for only $1,027.15.*
*Plus Tax.
... in 23 days. You fly the Clipper from New York to Lisbon, spend 2 days there and fly on to Madrid for 4 exciting days. For 10 wonderful days you explore Southern Spain, staying overnight at picturebook towns like Cordoba and Seville, Malaga, Granada and Valencia. Wind up with 2 days in Barcelona and 2 more for the Balearic Islands, including famous Majorca. Return by Clipper from Barcelona to Lisbon or via Paris, if you wish.
Pan Am Holidays to Europe begin as low as $618.90* for 2 weeks. For complete details call your Travel Agent or the nearest Pan American office.
“Plus tax.
— .-«*■
8. “Last of all, London, with its great dignity and majesty—its feel-fig of permanence. Here we were allowed to watch a Corporal inspecting two of the Horse Guards at Whitehall. ‘Fabulous trip’, said Pat, as we climbed aboard our ‘Strato’ Clipper to fly back to New York. ‘I’ve never had such a wonderful time.’ ”
7. “This is the way Paris made Pat feel-even in the daytime! She thought the Eiffel Tower was really magnificent and its top was so high it seemed to us to sway when clouds crossed behind it on a windy day.”
All the way to Europe and back we had something
which is important when you’re flying the Atl< the priceless knowledge that we were aboard the Worlds Most Experienced Airline”
6. “It was at the Moulin Rouge that Pat said, ‘This Paris grows on you. I am beginning to understand why all songwriters and poets wax lyrical when Paris is mentioned.’ (I like the place myself!) The French certainly know how to cook a filet and Pan American was right to choose meals by Maxim’s for their Clippers. By Clipper, you know, you’re only I0V4 hours from New York.”
5. “In Paris, Pat was thrilled by the Schiaparelli gown you see being modeled above. We couldn’t afford to buy it ($2000!) but Pat said just being allowed to look at it was worth the trip to Europe! That’s Napoleon’s column in the Place Venddme you see out the window—the famous Ritz bar is just across the street.”