You Can Have Everything Arranged Advance
Naturally you want to make the most of your time on a European vacation. And a good way to do so is to take advantage of one of the many Pan Am Holidays available. Then you can really relax and enjoy yourself. For you’ll have no confusing or distracting travel details to worry about since all your bookings, reservations and sightseeing arrangements are taken care of in advance. Wherever you go in Europe, you’ll know before you start how much everything’s going to cost . . . something seasoned travelers appreciate when foreign money transactions are involved.
Another thing, because these Pan Am Holidays make use of speedy air transportation, you’ll be able to see and do a great many things in Europe that you’d ordinarily have to pass up if you were depending on slow surface travel. Yet these plans don’t confine you to any particular region or mode of transportation. For they may make use of rail and bus, car and steamer, as well as Clipper and other air transportation.
These convenient plans range all the way from a week to an entire season and longer . . . from a single city or country to the entire continent. That’s why it’s so easy to find one to your liking no matter how much or how little time you have, or what sections you’d like to include. And you can always combine or adapt these plans to suit your particular purpose.
Just to give you an idea of the wide variety of Holidays available, some typical ones, ranging from 2 to 4 weeks, are shown across the flap on the inside of this folder. And you’ll also find photos and details on the 21-day Plan which the Dutchers followed on their European trip.
Include this Man When You Start to
Whether you’re thinking of a short stay in a few European countries or a prolonged trip on the continent and beyond . . . see your authorized Pan American Travel Agent.. It costs you no more for his services yet his long experience can be a big help on meeting the various travel requirements and choosing the itinerary you want. And because he knows how to make the most of your travel dollar . . . with such budget stretchers as Clipper Travel Plans, low-cost Rainbow service and the reduced fares and rates available during the Thrift Season ... he can often save you money on transportation and accommodations, too. So — see him soon.
Pan American	W
World’s Most Experienced Airline
Pa/V America/v
System of the Flying Clippers
You Really Get Around!
ipper
Speedy Clippers cross the Atlantic in hours . . . permit you to “commute” between European capitals. For example, you can fly from New York direct to Nice, like the young couple who describe their trip inside ... or direct to 12 other European cities . . . without even leaving your Clipper. Fly direct, in fact, to Shannon, London or Glasgow ... to Paris or Rome, or Brussels or Frankfurt . . . and do so on either the luxurious President Service or low-cost Rainbow. And, in Europe, you can head in almost any direction by Clipper, since Pan American serves 26 centers on the Continent. Return by Pan Am alternate routings . . . via London ... or Paris ... or via Lisbon, which features Pan Am’s renowned 1st class Super-6 service.
CLIPPERS are so comfortable
Clippers are air conditioned in summer,- snug and warm in winter. You fly above the weather, completely relaxed in soft adjustable seats, with attendants to wait on you and your congenial traveling companions. Meals are “on the house”, tipping’s never allowed and time passes so quickly you’re there before you know it, rested and ready for Europe.
RAINBOW SERVICE puts European travel within the reach of everyone, with history-making low air fares to Europe. (Fares are even lower during the November-through-March Thrift Season.) Yet you fly specially built Super-6 Clippers, enjoy the speed and dependability of Pan Am luxury flights and pay no extra charges of any kind.
Clipper and Sleeperette Trade-Marks, Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Copyright 1953, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
PRESIDENT SERVICE gives you luxury flights at 1st class fares aboard famous Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers, with their “downstairs lounge” and meals by Maxim’s of Paris, at no extra charge. There is a surcharge, however, on THE PRESIDENT SPECIAL. And well worth it, too, because it’s the world’s most luxurious air service, complete with complimentary cocktails or liqueurs and even orchids and perfume for the ladies. And, if you wish, you can sleep either on a bed-length chair of Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette Service or, at slight extra cost, in a full-length berth.
553-100 G-24