SWITZERLAND
	JAN.	WEATHER IN GENEVA—Lat 46° 12'—Alt. 400' FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.								NOV.	DEC.
i Low	28°	28°	31° 41°	50°	57°	60°	59°	51°	42°	35°	29°
Temp. < High	30°	37°	44° 52°	61°	66°	. 70°	69°	63°	53°	42°	35°
/ Average	29°	33°	38° 47°	56°	62°	65°	64°	57°	co	39°	32°
Days of Rainfall	12	13	13 15	15	15	14	13	12	12	12	13
LOCATION . . . Right in the heart of Central Europe, Switzerland is next door to France, Germany, Austria and Italy. Geneva is only 250 air miles from Paris.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Switzerland is literally the tourist’s paradise. For years foreigners have been flocking to the lake resorts and the Alps for skiing and other sports, and the Swiss treat the tourist with the cordiality and welcome he deserves. There is magnificent scenery; the hotels are wonderful. Swiss efficiency has not been exaggerated, nor have their honesty and cleanliness. It’s the ideal spot for a vacation, especially if you like outdoor life.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 4,650,000, a little less than that of Massachusetts. Geneva, with a population of 171,000, is a bit smaller than Worcester.
SIZE .. . 15,940 square miles—about twice the size of Massachusetts.
CAPITAL ... Berne.
GOVERNMENT . . . The world’s oldest Republic. A federation of twenty-two cantons or small states, each under local control, and headed by the Swiss Federal Council and a Parliament of two chambers to which the cantons send members.
HOW TO GET THERE . . . Connections from Clipper flights to London and Paris, 18 hours (elapsed time) from New York to Zurich. By ship 5 to 9 days to Le Havre, France, then about 13 hours by train to Zurich.
GENEVA
ACCOMMODATIONS ... All hotels in Geneva, and in the entire country for that matter, are clean and comfortable. The amount of extra trimmings depends on what you wish to spend. One of the most lavish is the Beau-Rivage, famous for many years for its fine French cuisine and distinguished service. Rates for single rooms begin at $4.50. Of the same type and price are des Bergues and Richemond. The smaller De la Paix is also excellent, with its delightful sidewalk cafe; the Angleterre is very good and moderately priced at $2.50 per day. Inexpensive and comfortable accommodations can be found at the Residence Hotel. Rates for comfortable single rooms begin at $1.50 a day. Rates for en pension (with meals) accommodations are offered by most Swiss hotels and they prove thrifty for longer stays. Inexpensive accommodations are also available at Geneva’s small boarding houses. Luxurious accommodations will be found at the newly built Hotel du Rhône.
ARTS . . . Though the most outstanding Swiss museums are in Zurich, The Historical Museum of Geneva has an interesting collection of ancient and early Renaissance art objects as well as the famous Wiltz altar paintings and the Liotard pastels. The Natural History Museum is one of the best in Europe and the collections of the Ethnographical Museum are well worth a morning of your time in Geneva. Most of the art in Switzerland’s museums and galleries has come from private collections and therefore cannot compare in quantity with other European collections, but what there is is of very high standing.
BALLET . . . Only theatre ballets.
BANKS . . ■ Chase National Bank; National City Bank of New York; American Express; Lloyds Bank; Wagons-Lits Cook; Swiss Bank Corp; Union Bank of Switzerland and the Crédit Suisse. All cash traveler’s checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . National holidays in Switzerland are Good Friday, Corpus Christi Day, Easter Monday, Ascension Day, Whit Monday, Independence Day (August
1), Christmas and New Year’s Day.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, PIPES AND TOBACCO ... The
duty-free import limit on tobacco is 400 cigarettes, or 80 cigars, or about 1 lb. of tobacco. American brands of cigarettes are available in Switzerland at 40c a pack.
CLIMATE. • • Switzerland’s climate is wonderfully healthy and invigorating. Temperatures are similar to those in the Northern United States during all seasons, though slightly rainier in the winter. The weather in the high Alpine areas is crisply cool and the sun on the slopes often gets quite hot because there are no strong winds. The dry climate in the high altitudes is wonderful for those with hay fever. May to September is about the best time to visit Switzerland. For winter sports, the middle of December to end of February.
CLUBS ■ • • Rotary International has branches in all major cities. The Automobile Club of Switzerland will give you all the help and information you need in planning a motor trip. Cards can be arranged at private sports clubs that welcome tourists all over the country.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. . .
For many years Switzerland has been a resort center for the whole world. The people are friendly and hospitable to tourists. Many languages are spoken in Switzerland. Most educated people speak French, German and English. Efficiency is a national characteristic and things happen on time. The atmosphere is generally relaxed because things all run so smoothly and punctually in the background.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . The Telephone systems are government-run. You can dial any town or city in Switzerland. There are excellent long distance facilities to other countries, and cable and telegraph offices in all cities and towns.
CURRENCY • • • The present rate of exchange is 4.30 Swiss francs to the dollar. The franc is the monetary unit.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS • • • Cameras are allowed duty free at the rate of
[21]