NEW HORIZONS
FRANCE (Cont.)
several hotels at Monte Carlo, most famous of which is the Hotel de Paris. There are the Métropole, the Hermitage, the Mirabeau, any of which is first rate. Along the entire Riviera there is wonderful golf, fishing, swimming and boating. It is a yachtsman’s paradise, but it is fun for small boatsmen too; there is water skiing and underwater fishing. In the winter there is skiing about twenty-five miles inland from the beaches. There are fine restaurants along the Riviera. La Réserve de Beaulieu and Chateau de Madrid (on Middle Corniche) are two of the best restaurants on the coast. Da Bouttan in the heart of the old town of Nice is an amusing restaurant for local and regional dishes. The Restaurant de VArmorial at La Napoule is really superb and not over expensive.
If you don’t want a swank resort, some of the smaller fishing villages offer pensions and small hotels at reasonable rates. St.-Tropez, Villefranche, Cap Ferrât, Cap d’Ail for instance. The Riviera is both a summer and winter resort these days. But the winter weather is not so warm as Florida. More like Southern California. You can, as suggested by Dior in Vogue, take a delightful seven-day drive from Paris to Cannes by way of Avallon, St-Seine-1’Abbaye, Vienne (homeof the famous La Pyramide restaurant), Valence, Vaison-la-Romaine, Les Baux, Marseilles and along the coast to Cannes. There are marvelous restaurants, charming hotels along the way.
normandy and brittany ... In Normandy you will want to visit the invasion beaches of Omaha, Arromanches and Utah. Rouen is the departure point for tours of both provinces. The city was heavily damaged by bombings but is still the museum city, the place where Joan of Arc was burned at the stake. Many towns in Normandy are still in ruins but rehabilitation is going on. Deauville, one of the most popular beach resorts in France, is back to normal and the season has been highly successful there. The Normandy, Royal and Hotel du Golf have been refurnished. There is a casino, horseracing, yachting, golf and polo. Paris shops have branches there.
Take a trip to Mont St. Michel at the junction of Normandy and Brittany. Built on a small island with a single street that climbs to the abbey founded in the eighth century. It was a prison in Napoleon’s time. The cobbled street is lined with shops, and restaurants, most of which feature huge fluffy omelets made on an open fire before your eyes. Very good, too. In Brittany you’ll find the women still wearing the white starched coifs. You’ll see the enclosed beds. Quimper is the tourist center. Market days, Wednesday and Saturday, are most picturesque. The square in front of the Cathedral is crowded with colored tents in which all sorts of things are sold. Dinard in northern Brittany is the largest seaside resort and a favorite of the British.
St.-Malo, across the harbor from Dinard, is a walled city full of charm. It is also a battlefield site now. There are innumerable quaint little fishing villages along the Brittany coast where local traditions are preserved. The Pardons, great religious festivals, run from May to October and you see native Brittany at its most colorful then.
There are tours of Normandy and Brittany from Paris.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... Horse racing goes on almost all year at one track or another near Paris. Soccer is popular at the Stade Jean Bouin and at Colombes Stadium. Tennis tournaments and championship matches take place at the Racing Club in the Bois. Boxing matches are frequent. Basketball games during the winter.
SPORTS . . . Cycling is a favorite sport around Paris. There is a fine golf course at St. Cloud (card necessary), also at St. Germain, Chantilly, Mortefontaine, etc., and riding in the Bois. There is skiing in the French Alps and the Pyrenees in winter. Yachting, swimming, fishing, golf, riding all along the Riviera, Deauville, Biarritz and good fishing in Brittany,
THEATRES. . . The Comédie Française, one of the most famous theatres in the world, is open all year except in July and August. Grand Opera may be heard all year at the Opéra. The Opéra Comique has light opera. The Grand Guignol which features horror plays is certainly worth a visit. The Folies Bergère is the mecca of many Americans and there are numerous music halls offering variety. Buy your seats from a broker; it saves wear and tear. Performances at 8:45 p.m. Matinees Thursday and Sunday at 3:00.
TIME... Six hours ahead of our Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . You tip everywhere you turn. Hotels add a service charge to your bill but still you must tip the bell boy, porter, chambermaid, waiter and anyone else who does anything for you. It is customary to tip movie theatre ushers. Cab drivers get about 20 per cent of the meter reading. There is a washroom attendant who must be tipped and almost anyone else you can think of. The wine waiter gets a tip in addition to your regular waiter. The concierge should be tipped, too.
TOURIST TAXES. . . Port taxes of $6.50 1st class, $4.50 2nd class and $3 tourist class collected at all seaports.
TRANSPORTATION.. . There are plenty of taxis but somehow they are not always easy to get. They are quite cheap, however. It is advisable always to notice whether the taxi you hire has a meter. Unmetered cabs often charge exorbitant rates. It is wise to keep your cab waiting if you are shopping. Between twelve and two drivers won’t take you anywhere except in the direction they are going. They are usually going to lunch.
After 11 p.m. rates are doubled. Consult your driver before you go anywhere because at night clubs and theatres fixed rate cabs are waiting. There are stands for cars for hire near most of the hotels. These are more expensive than ordinary cabs. Travel by Metro (subway) at least once. It runs from 6 a.m. to 12:45 a.m. and it is unlike any subway you have known. There are buses all over Paris running from 6:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. You must queue up for these and there are pads of numbers on posts near bus stops which you take, thus giving yourself an assured place in the line. Taxi drivers are as volatile and excitable as ever and cabs are just as aged.
WATER AND MILK . . . They’re safe to drink usually. There are plenty of bottled waters, Perrier, Evian and Vittel, that are good and cheap. Be sure milk has been pasteurized.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Clothes, of course, from one of the great designers, if you can afford them. Paris hats are like no other hats anywhere. Lingerie, blouses, gloves, laces, china, Lalique glass, Cognac and Champagne are all cheaper than at home. Much cheaper. Made to order girdles are wonderful. Perfumes are amazingly inexpensive for there is no middleman. Umbrellas are beautiful and reasonable. Costume jewelry is low priced, too. Don’t buy perfumes at any but reliable stores. Don’t buy dresses anywhere but at top shops or couturiers. Fashions have a two-year patent in Paris and it’s easy to buy something old. Shoes are not a good buy; they are apt not to be right for American feet. Furs are better at home. Hermès’ engagement and address book is a standard French gift for a man, and very swank. Bags are excellent in Paris. For men there are hand-rolled handkerchiefs, lisle socks, ties, wallets.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . Your newest, smartest clothes. The sort of thing you would wear in any large city at home. Don’t wear white shoes on the street. You’ll need a raincoat, a suit, walking shoes. Evening clothes if you plan to do any gala night life at all. Men should dress as in any city. Dinner jacket is a necessity for a man. If you go to the Riviera take your newest sports clothes, evening clothes and a fur jacket, beach clothes. Men need slacks, sports shirts, bathing trunks and robes. For skiing what you would wear at a good resort at home, or buy your ski things abroad.
[20]