INDIAN OCEAN
AUSTRALIA
WEATHER IN SYDNEY—Lat. S33°52'—Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low Temp. < High
65°	65°	63°	51°	52°	4^ 00	46°	47°	51°	56°	Os ©	63°
78°	78°	76°	71°	65°	61°	59°	63°	67°	71°	74°	77°
72°	72°	70°	61°	59°	55°	53°	55°	59°	64°	67°	65°
14	14	15	14	15	13	12	11	12	12	12	13
LOCATION . . . The smallest of the continents, .Australia lies in the South Pacific about as far south of the equator as Mexico and our southern states are north. Thus the country is in the temperate zone except for parts of the north which reach into the tropic zone. The island of Tasmania, included in the commonwealth, lies about 100 miles off the southeastern coast.
CHARACTERISTICS. . .This is the “sunshine continent,”‘an open, smiling land of beautiful beaches, wonderful fishing, fine skiing and good golf. Australians spend most of their lives out-of-doors. They are marvelous sportsmen. Australians and Americans are alike in many ways. You’ll find yourself quite at home “down under.” There is, of course, no language barrier, although you will find some of their terms unfamiliar. But Australia has something for everyone who enjoys new sights, new experiences. The cities are cosmopolitan, the roads good, the people hospitable. Much of Australia is wild and uncultivated, but the parts the average American tourist visits have most of the comforts of home with the advantage of being different and colorful.
POPULATION . . . 7,580,820, fewer inhabitants than New York City.
SIZE . . . 2,974,581 square miles, approximately the area of the United States. Tasmania is slightly larger than West Virginia.
CAPITAL . . . Canberra, a city of 15,156, about 200 miles southwest of Sydney.
GOVERNMENT ... A British commonwealth, Australia consists of six states (including Tasmania) and the Northern Territory, which are self governing on local matters. The country as a whole is governed by a Federal Parliament and a Governor-General who represents the King.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper via Honolulu and the Fiji Islands, Sydney is 38 hours (elapsed time) from San Francisco. Melbourne is about 2Vi hours by air from Sydney. By ship about 27 days.
SYDNEY
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Hotels in Sydney include: The Australia, 45 Castlereagh Street, rates about $5.50 double with bath; The Wentworth on Lang Street which is quiet and conservative, rates about $3.50 double with bath, including breakfast; Ushers Hotel, Castlereagh Street, rates about $3.50 double with breakfast; Hotel Pacific at Manly on the Pacific about seven miles from the city; Ideraway Private Hotel at Elizabeth Bay ten minutes from town.
ARTS . .. National Art Gallery contains good collection of Australian and foreign paintings and statuary. Australian Museum, College Street and Hyde Park houses collections of aboriginal life and natural history. Macquarie Galleries has exhibitions by leading Australian artists.
BALLET . . . Touring American and European companies appear from time to time. There is a native company, too.
BANKS . . . Bank of New South Wales is oldest of many. Head office, 341 George St. Cook’s is at 12 Bridge St.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; Good Friday, Easter Monday; King’s Birthday, June 9th; Anniversary Day, January 26th; Christmas Day; Boxing Day, December 26th.
CIGARS, CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes are very difficult to get. Take in what you need and pay the duty. Australian cigarettes are very unlike ours and are an acquired taste; pipe tobacco rather good.
CLIMATE . . . Australian seasons are the reverse of ours. Summer starts in December; Autumn in March; Winter in June; Spring in September. Climates vary greatly within the continent. However, Australians go north for winter vacations, south in the summer. December through March is the ideal time to visit Australia.
CLUBS . . . Sydney Amateur Jockey Club; International Rotary; Australian Jockey Club. There are many private clubs for which guest cards may be arranged through members, or if you are a member of a comparable club at home. For sports clubs see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . .
Beach Regulations—signifying flags, easily distinguishable to all, serve as a guidance to surfers. Life Saving units are in attendance at most beaches and a regular beach patrol is kept by an alert and helpful group of life savers. Auto Driving—when driving a vehicle near cross roads, always lend way to the driver on the right. Pedestrians—It is polite when walking on footpath (sidewalk) to keep to the left-hand side.
COMMUNICATIONS .. . Cable and air mail service and trans-Pacific telephone service.
CURRENCY . . . Monetary unit is the Australian pound worth about $2.24.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Passport and visa. Vaccination certificate. Return passage or proof of sufficient funds. You may bring in 400 cigarettes, or 80 cigars or 1 lb. tobacco, two quarts of liquor (one opened).
DRUG STORES . . . Known as chemist’s shops here and carry pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and photo supplies and service.
FAUNA.. .The animals of Australia are known the world over. The Kangaroo, the koala, the platypus, the ant-eater, the giant turtles and, of course, the sheep. Among birds, count the fascinating Kookaburra which allegedly laughs instead of sings; the emu; the lyre-bird which imitates its feathered colleagues; cockatoos and parrots; bower birds and love birds. All of these animals and birds won’t be found around or in Sydney, but are
[171]