NEW ZEALAND
WEATHER IN JAN. FEB.			AUCKLAND—Lat. S36°53'—Alt. Approx, sea level MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.							NOV.	DEC.
i Low	59°	60°	58°	55°	51°	48°	46°	47°	49° 51°	54°	57°
Temp. < High	73°	74°	72°	68°	62°	59°	57°	58°	61° 63°	67°	70°
/ Average	66°	67°	65°	62°	55°	54°	52°	53°	55° 57°	61°	64°
Days of Rainfall	10	10	11	13	19	20	21	19	17 17	15	10
LOCATION . . . New Zealand consists of two large islands (North Island and South Island) and numerous small islands of which Stewart Island, just below South Island, and Chatham Island, 500 miles to the east, are the largest. Auckland is about 1,300 air miles east of Sydney, Australia; and about the same distance south of the Fiji Islands.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . New Zealand is unique. It is a wonderland of scenery, a sportsman’s dream spot and delightful spot in which to take a completely different vacation. Wherever you go, even in the cities, there is a wonderfully uncrowded atmosphere. All New Zealanders are active sportsmen; there are practically no fat people because of the active outdoor life. Although New Zealanders are reserved, they are cordial and hospitable people with a great interest in culture and world affairs. The islands have everything in the way of scenery that you can find anywhere else in the world. The Southern Alps and the fiords, the fertile and lush bushland, the lakes and waterfalls compare favorably with anything in Europe or America: Their fishing is the best in the world, their beaches excellent and their winter sports are splendid. For anyone looking for the unusual, New Zealand provides the answer; it has the lowest death rate in the world and a climate truly perfect.
POPULATION...Estimated at 1,873,301—the same population as Detroit. Auckland, the largest city (281,900 inhabitants) is the size of Syracuse, N. Y.
SIZE... 103,410 square miles, equal to the combined area of New York and Illinois.
CAPITAL ... Wellington, population 183,100, the size of Norfolk, Virginia.
GOVERNMENT ... A member of the British Commonwealth of Nations, New Zealand is politically independent and governed by its own Parliament. The King is represented by a Governor-general.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper from Seattle, Portland, or San Francisco to Auckland, about 37 hours (elapsed time); 7 hours flying time from the Fiji Islands. Actually the time becomes a day later as you cross the International Date Line. By ship, about 15 days from San Francisco.
AUCKLAND
ACCOMMODATIONS ... The Waverley, Royal, Central, Station, the Grand and the Trans-Tasman are about the best hotels in Auckland. Rates run about $4 to $5 per day including breakfast and dinner. However, Auckland specializes in charming guest houses, a few miles from the center of town, such as the Roedean in Parnell. Overlooking Waitemata Harbor, this small but delightful place offers fine accommodations and excellent food. There are several such spots worth finding and staying at; better, really, than the larger hotels.
ARTS . . • The War Memorial Museum contains one of the finest collections of Maori and Polynesian exhibits in the world. The Art Museum is important, featuring works by New Zealand artists.
BALLET . • • Visiting companies appear from time to time at His Majesty's Theatre.
BANKS . . - There are a number of trading banks, all of which have branches throughout New Zealand. Travelers checks will be negotiated at any branch. Representatives of the Bank of New Zealand meet every incoming aircraft in order to convert overseas travelers’ funds and to negotiate travelers checks and bank drafts even should the aircraft arrive outside normal banking hours. Other banks are Bank of New South Wales, Bank of Australasia, Commercial Bank of Australia, National Bank of New Zealand,Union Bank of Australia,Thos. Cook & Son.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Anzac Day (April 25th), Easter Monday, King’s Birthday (June), Christmas, Boxing Day (December 26).
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO ... New Zealand cigarettes and tobacco are available; also English brands. American cigarettes are not obtainable in New Zealand, but passengers are permitted to bring in a few cartons for their own use on payment of the appropriate duty which is approximately $1.50 per carton.
CLIMATE . . . North Island to the north of Auckland is moist and semi-tropical. Situated below the equator, it is warmer in the north and colder in the south. South Island is colder and higher. September to April is the ideal New Zealand season, as their seasons are in the reverse of ours. July, August and September are best for winter sports. Because you are never far from the sea in New Zealand, the climate is moderate.
CLUBS . • • Rotary International, Overseas League, Victoria League, Royal Empire Society, Travel Club, English Speaking Union.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS Tea is a ritual here, morning and afternoon. And when you are invited to come to tea it probably means “supper.” When drinking with friends at a “pub,” wait until everyone is served before drinking. You drive to the left in New Zealand.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Radio telephones and cables to the United States. Air-mail, of course.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the New Zealand pound, worth about $2.80, the same as the British.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . Passport and visa. Smallpox vaccination certificate, two passport-size photos.
[167]