NEW HORIZONS
SIAM (THAILAND) (Cont.)
many shops. Banks are never allowed to be closed more than two days at a time.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . There are many national holidays.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO .. . All brands are available. You may bring in 200 cigarettes, 50 cigars or 1 lb. of tobacco.
CLIMATE ... In December and January, the best months to visit Siam, it’s hot but not humid during the day and cool at night to the point where you’ll want a blanket over you. March, April and May constitute the “hot season,” June through October the monsoon season with torrential rains, and November through April the “cool” season.
CLUBS . . . Cosmopolitan Club, Polo Club. See sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . After you’ve been in Bangkok for a while you’ll learn how the Siamese greet one another. It’s a sort of combination of placing the hands together as if in prayer while slightly bowing the head at the same time.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone: The telephone service is not comparable to that in the U. S. and will put a strain on your patience. Have your hotel operator get you the local number you wish. Long-distance calls to the States are out of the question. Cable and radio service to all parts of the world is efficient and reliable. For an ordinary letter airmail stamps cost 2.90 ticals or United States 13c.
CURRENCY . . . The local currency is the tical (also called baht), which is divided into 100 satangs. The approximate value of the tical is (United States) (or about 20 to the United States dollar). The money market operates on a Free Market Exchange. The banks issue a daily published statement on current exchange rates. There is a fractional difference between the Buying Rate and the Selling Rate. Currency regulations are few and except for a law forbidding an excess of ticals 1,200 (equivalent to about $64.00 United States) being brought into the country, there is no limit to the amount of Traveler’s Cheques or money orders which are allowed to be carried. (See banks.)
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . You must have a passport but are not required to have a Siamese transit visa. All other nationals must be in possession of a visa. There are no special restrictions for traveling in the interior of Siam. Tourists should have a medical certificate (signed by a Public Health Officer) covering typhoid, cholera and typhus inoculations and a smallpox .vaccination. There is no malaria in the Bangkok area—only in northeast and southern Siam. Siamese custom officials are strict on the movement of cameras and films. Tourists or transit passengers must obtain special permission from the customs officer in charge to bring in their cameras and films. They must guarantee to take them out of the country when they leave. No radio sets, guns, or ammunition are allowed to be brought into Siam, but they may be left in bond at the airport.
DRUG STORES . .. There are drug stores with the usual pharmaceuticals.
FAUNA. . . Tigers, serpents, crocodiles, bears, boars, deer (Asiatic varieties), rhinoceros, monkeys and gibbons, tapirs, porcupines, hares, leopards, sladang (wild cattle), wild dogs, elephants, big lizards, peacocks, parrots, myna birds and many other varieties of birds. Among the domesticated and pet animals are dogs, cats, cattle, buffaloes, elephants, guinea-pigs, goats, ducks, chickens, geese, turkeys, and horses, etc. Siamese cats are world famous. There is another species not well known to Americans and Europeans but much more sought after by the Siamese. These Korat cats are gun-metal grey from head to tail without any spots or streaks, but built like a Siamese cat. Some elephants are much lighter in color than the rest and these are known as white elephants, but it must be remembered that they are by no means white, but rather pink, as distinct from ordinary Siamese elephants which are brownish black.
FLORA . . . Every variety of orchid, gardenias, hibiscus, and other exotic tropical plants; flame trees, teak forests; huge assortment of tropical fruits, namely; mangoes, rose apples, bananas (18 varieties), durians, oranges, pomeloes, and many varieties of very good but practically unnamable fruits.
FOOD ... Most of the restaurants serve Chinese food, in-
cluding such delicacies as bird’s-nest soup, shark’s-fin soup. Siamese rice is considered the best in the world with the result that Siamese curries are held to be unequalled by many gourmets. Rice birds, plakapon (a large but delicate fish), superb prawns, and “hundred-year” eggs (much better than they sound) are a few of the delicacies you’ll want to try.
GAMBLING . . . There is no organized gambling in Siam, except legal betting at the horse races.
LANGUAGE ... Spoken: Siamese (or Thai, pronounced Tie) is the national and official language. It is very old and has its origin in Central China, the original home of the Siamese. It is monosyllabic. Written: The Siamese write with pens from left to right. There are 44 consonants and 15 simple vowels and four kinds of musical intonations. Here’s Pan American World Airways written in “Thai” imu eiuiffu naei tia/nao Natives in the first-class hotels, shops, etc. understand English, so don’t worry about not knowing a word of Siamese.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Fine overnight laundry facilities. No dry cleaning.
LIQUOR ... All the better known wines and spirits are available at bars and restaurants as well as in Tecksoon’s & Silom Market. Try some native mekong whiskey made from rice —it is said to be guaranteed not to give hangovers.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The Bangkok Nursing Home, Convent Road, is used by the United States colony in Bangkok. It is staffed by European doctors. There are American-trained and European dentists.
MOTION PICTURES .. . There are five or six movie theatres, showing pictures in English, mostly six-months-old American and British films.
MUSIC . . . Only in connection with dancing and drama, mentioned elsewhere, and at the fights.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . European-type: Chez Eve, Sala Thai, La Roulette. With hostesses: Cathay, Hoi Tien Lau Roof, The Ninth Floor, The International Club.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Trocadero Hotel Bldg. (Tel. 30817).
RELIGION . . . The national religion of Siam is Buddhism. There is a Protestant Episcopal Church on Convent Road in Bangkok, near the American Embassy, and there are numerous Roman Catholic Churches in the city.
RESTAURANTS . . . Hoi Tien Lau, Trocadero Hotel, Oriental Hotel, and numerous very good, small Chinese restaurants.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Hours same as in United States; Chinese shops are open on Sunday.
SIGHTSEEING . . . From a tourist’s point of view, Bangkok is a unique city. It provides a vista of interesting sights, imposing and colorful temples and beautiful palaces. The immediate surroundings cannot fail to attract and impress. Bangkok is interlinked by canals; the local name given to them being “klongs.” These klongs have now become part of the main river which is called the “Chao Phya.” The Chao Phya River flows through Bangkok and is navigable as far as Bangkok for all vessels which can cross the Bar where the river meets the Gulf of Siam, 30 miles below the capital.
Other points of interest are: The National Museum. The Royal Palace, which is in reality a walled town covering an area of over a square mile. Bangkok has some three hundred Buddhist Temples, many of which contain fine examples of Siamese frescoes and sculpture. Of the more famous are: Royal Chapel or Temple of the Emerald Buddha (Wat Phra Keo), with its extraordinary mural of the Ramayana. The Marble Temple (Wat Benchamabapit) is considered a gem of modern Siamese religious architecture and contains one of the finest collections of bronze and stone Buddhas from every corner of the Buddhist world. The Temple of the Reclining Buddha (Wat Phra Chetu-pon). The Temple of Dawn (Wat Arun) whose high tower is the most characteristic monument in Bangkok, is on the right bank of the Chao Phya River. From the tower one enjoys a beautiful view of Bangkok, the Palace and Royal temples and the river. Wat Sutat contains the only unretouched murals in Siam.
Other sightseeing possibilities include: Boat trips on the river; the “Thieves” market located in the Nakorn Kasem section of Bangkok; the Floating market—go out at 6:00 a.m. by boat
[158]