FINLAND
WEATHER IN HELSINKI—Lat. N60°12'—Alt. 25'
JAN.	FEB.	MAR.	APR.	MAY	JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT.	OCT.	NOV.	DEC.
Average Temp. 23°	22°	28°	37°	46°	55°	62°	59°	50°	41°	32°	28°
Days of Rainfall 18	16	14	12	12	13	12	16	16	17	19	19
LOCATION . . . Finland lies northwest of Russia and east of Norway and Sweden. Helsinki in the south is about 250 air miles from Stockholm, 1144 air miles from London.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Finland is a delightful and vigorous country which is unspoiled by too many tourists despite the fact that it offers the traveler a great deal. This land where the midnight sun shines through the summer is a paradise of virgin forests, crystal lakes, of mountains and cascading rivers. Like all Nordic countries, its people are blond and blue-eyed, its cities clean, its food marvelous. The country is efficient, the people hospitable and the rugged rather mystic quality of the country is reflected in the Finns themselves. For an unusual vacation, Finland is the answer.
POPULATION... Approximately 4 million—the combined populations of Chicago and San Diego.
SIZE... 130,165 square miles, the size of New Mexico plus Vermont.
CAPITAL . . . Helsinki with 400,000 inhabitants is the size of San Antonio, Texas.
GOVERNMENT... a republic.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, through-plane service from New York to Stockholm, about 20 hours (elapsed time) via Oslo, or about 19 hours via London, Hamburg and Copenhagen. Then Helsinki is only 2 hours flying time from Stockholm. By ship about 12 days from New York to Helsinki.
HELSINKI
ACCOMMODATIONS •. . Among the finest hotels in Helsinki are the Klaus Kurki, Kamp, Seurahuone, and Torni. There are many less expensive but very good hotels here, too, such as the Carlton, Helsinki and Andrea. Rates in the top hotels run about $5.50 per day, single and about $3.50 to $4.00 per day in the others.
ARTS • • • There are many galleries and museums in Helsinki, and lots of magnificent sculptures to be seen in the public square. In the Ateneum, you will see collections of paintings by Akseli Gallen-Kallela, Albert Edelfelt, Eero Jarnefelt (brother-in-law of the world famous composer, Jean Sibelius) Juho Rissanen and other famous Finnish artists. The National Museum houses a large collection of the works of these masters as does the Museum of the City of Helsinki, and the Taidehalli (Art Museum). In addition to the paintings and murals by these outstanding artists the museums contain collections of sculpture by Finland’s No. 1 sculptor, Vaino Aaltonen, Jussi Mantynen, and others.
BALLET • • • There are Finnish ballet companies which give their performances in the Opera House, except in summer.
BANKS • • • Many of the banks such as Helsingin Osakepankki have United States affiliation. You can cash travelers’ checks.
CALENDAR HOLIDAYS . . • December 6, Independence Day; Christmas Day; New Year’s Day and the day after, which is St. Stephen’s Day and a very festive one for the Finns; February 5, Birthday of J. L. Runeberg; February 28, Kalevala Day; Easter, a four-day holiday; Good Friday through Easter Monday; May Day (time of the great student festival) and June 23 to 24, Mid-Summer Eve and Day, another festive occasion.
CIGARETTES • • • American cigarettes are hard to get, but the Finns have two brands very similar to ours, the North State and Boston. You may bring in 250 cigarettes, or 50 cigars or one-half pound of tobacco.
CLIMATE • • • Similar to that of New England. July and August are the best times to visit Finland.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS • • The Sauna, or famous Finnish bath is a must when you visit Finland. Nearly
every home has one and almost every hotel.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Telephone, cables, radio and trans-Atlantic telephones, airmail.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the mark worth about 231 to our dollar.
CUSTOMS AND DOCUMENTS NEEDED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS • • • Passport and visa required. You may bring in two bottles of liquor. Unlimited currency allowed, but it must be declared.
DRUG STORES • • • Chemists’ shops and lots of them.
FAUNA • • • Finland’s mammalian fauna is dominated by fox, squirrel, hare, moose, wolf. In the eastern and northern parts the bear, wolverine and lynx are also found. For the game bird hunter, Finland offers good ground. The capercailzie, the black grouse and the hazel-hen are rather common birds here.
FLORA • • • The flora and vegetation of Finland resembles that of northern Minnesota. More than 70 per cent of Finland’s land area is covered by forests. Predominant trees are pine, spruce and birch. In northern parts of the country there are large swamps which cover about one-third of the total land area.
FOOD • • • Some of the native foods are wonderful. Of course, the Smorgasbord, Piirakka (Karelian meat or fish pastry with rice), Finnish pancakes served with Ligonberry sauce, and in August the crayfish. You should try to attend a crayfish party.
GAMBLING • • • The National Lottery and Playball machines. There is betting on horse trotting.
LANGUAGE. • • Finland is a bilingual country where approximately 90 per cent of the population speak Finnish, a language belonging to the Finno-Ugrian language group, and the rest of the people speak Swedish. The tourist can easily get by in Helsinki and other bigger towns, as people very commonly speak English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES • Laundries are plentiful and in Helsinki they have laundromats. Dry cleaning facilities excellent.
LIQUOR • • • The Finns have two very rare liquors, Mesimarja (Arctic brambleberry) and Lakka (cloudberry or chamemorus). Other liquors are also available.
[49]