NEW HORIZONS
HAWAII (Cont.)
There is the sliding bathtub, where falls spray down a natural chute into a fresh water swimming pool. Here, too is the Wai Lua River near the mouth of which is a hotel very small and very good, the Garden Island. You may go by hired boat to the Fern Grotto up a river filled with water hyacinths to the spot where ferns hang from the rocks in a green veil. Worth seeing.
molokai...This island is almost completely unspoiled. There are ranches here and pineapple plantations. Wild deer roam all over the island and hunting is permissible despite the fact that most of the best deer land is owned by Molokai Ranch, Ltd. Some of the finest game fishing is to be found here. The Seaside Inn, a hotel by the beach facing the pineapple island of Lanai offers relaxation and peace to people who want to get away from it all and just relax.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Polo, wrestling, boxing, baseball, others include Catamaran (twin-hulled craft) sailing, barefoot football, outrigger canoeing.
SPORTS .. . Surfboard riding, is the national pastime. Instructors can be hired by the hour. For deep-sea fishing, boats may be chartered and the fishing is sensational. You can learn to spear fish off the reefs. Tennis. Besides the courts at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel there are courts open to the public at Ala Moana Park along the sea. Racquets may also be rented. You can hike in Hawaii’s wonderful mountains by joining the Hawaiian Trail and Mountain club. Hawaii’s hunting includes, pheasant, quail, pigs, deer and goats. Goat hunting is the only sport available the entire year. There are many bowling alleys and for those who prefer archery, targets are always standing in Kapiolani Park.
There are many good golf clubs and your hotel manager can arrange a guest card for you. Waialae Golf Club is a championship course where the annual Hawaiian opens are held some years. Oahu Country Club is a private club used by many visitors who are invited to play by members. Ala Wai is a municipal course near Waikiki. You can charter boats to sail yourself or take one of the regular charter boat trips.
THEATRE. . . The Honolulu Community Theatre offers a year round program of stage plays, including the Banyan Playhouse at the Moana Hotel.
TIME ... 2 hours earlier than Pacific Standard Time.
TIPPING .. . About the same as in the States.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Modern buses, taxis, and private cars can be rented easily. Frequent airline service between islands.
WATER . . . Both water and milk are safe to drink here.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Hawaiian perfumes, native jams and jellies, textiles, coral jewelry, jades and oriental goods. Among the other things you will probably want to take home are an Holoku, the traditional Hawaiian gown with long trains for formal wear and a muumuu which makes a fine house coat or hostess gown.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Sportswear is worn on many more occasions in Hawaii than it is in the United States. Cotton dresses for women, sports shirts and slacks for men. You’ll need sweaters and top coats for the higher altitudes of Hawaii and Kauai. Better take evening clothes along too. Dark glasses are a must.
Tropical glades at Nuuanu Pali. The Hibiscus, Bougainvillaea, orchid varieties are beautiful and flowering trees grow in great profusion everywhere.
Hawaii is full of interesting and unusual sights you’ll want to photograph. This tourist takes a snapshot of his wife and native girl in front of Japanese temple in Honolulu.
t:-*
While his wife appraises a previous catch and a couple of tourists look on in admiration of his skill, a Hawaiian net fisherman prepares to cast his net.
[145]