HAITI

	WEATHER IN PORT-AU-PRINCE-					-Lat.	N18°33'—Alt. 25'	
	JAN.	FEB.	MAR. APR.	MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.				NOV. DEC.
( Low	68°	68°	69° 71°	72°	73°	74°	73° 73° 72°	71° 69°
Temp. < High	87°	88°	On GO ON CO	90°	92°	94°	93° 91° 90°	88° 87°
/ Average	76°	77°	78° 79°	80°	82°	82°	82° 81° 80°	78° 77°
Days of Rainfall	5	7	10 14	16	9	9	13 16 14	9 5
LOCATION . . . Haiti occupies the western third of the island of Hispaniola (next to the Dominican Republic) between Cuba and Puerto Rico.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Colorful Haiti with its Voodoo drums, its fascinating capital and its twin wonders, La Citadelle and Sans Souci Palace, has a lot to offer the visitor in search of the exotic. The crowded, colorful streets of Port-au-Prince filled with the Negro women carrying baskets on their heads, and in contrast, with modern automobiles, smart shops and excellent hotels, are an unbelievable sight. Flowers bloom everywhere in profusion, mimosa grows among the pines; the air is filled with the scent of Frangipani. The hills are always cool, the atmosphere always relaxed. It’s a wonder vacation island filled with beauty and strangeness. Although Haiti became independent early in the nineteenth century (following more than a hundred years as a French possession), the Haitians are proud of their French heritage; and French remains the official language. You will find this French background pervading the atmosphere wherever you go.
POPULATION . . . About 3,000,000, mostly negroes or mulattoes descended from the French settlers. There are about 3,000 white foreigners.
SIZE ... 10,700 square miles, approximately the size of Maryland.
CAPITAL . . . Port-au-Prince with a population of 170,000.
GOVERNMENT... An independent republic with a President and National Assembly of two houses.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper non-stop flights to Port-au-Prince, 3 hours flying time from Miami; about 2 hours from Camaguey, Cuba; 1 hour from Kingston, Jamaica. By ship about 5 days from New York.
PORT-AU-PRINCE
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are several hotels in Port-au-Prince which are charming and good. The Citadelle is on a hilltop which overlooks the city; rates about $10 to $14 a day. The Splendid is a charming converted mansion—has a swimming pool; rates $9 to $12 single, $18 to $25 double, American plan. This is a Haitian run hotel and caters to Haitian society. The Olojfson has a swimming pool and is very picturesque; rates $7 up. The Riviera, El Rancho and the Ibo Lele are the newest. The Sans Souci, rates from $10 to $12 single, $18 to $20 double, is very popular with businessmen. These hotels all have private baths and all are American plan. There are other less expensive places to stay where you must share bathrooms.
ARTS ... The Centre d’Art has become an important art exhibition centre. Here the primitive paintings and sculptures of native Haitians are displayed, and more and more Americans are buying them. This centre was organized in 1944 and has become of great interest to the international art world. The National Museum has exhibits depicting the history of Haiti. The Museum of Ethnology has an interesting Voodoo section devoted to all props of the Voodoo rites.
BALLET ... No formal ballet, but plenty of native dances to be seen. See under sightseeing.
BANKS .. . The National Bank of the Republic of Haiti; the Royal Bank of Canada.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . January 1 and 2; Mardi Gras; Labor Day, May 1; Flag Day; May 18; Independence Day; Christmas.
CLIMATE . . . Port-au-Prince has a sunny, dry climate, not unlike Arizona. The nights are cool year round. The new hotels in suburban Petionville (4 miles from city, elevation 1500 feet) are making this a popular summer resort.
CLUBS • • • The Petionville Club with foreign resident members; the Turgeau Club, the Cercle Bellevue, and Club Port-au-Princien, exclusive Haitian clubs. For other clubs see sports on the next page.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . You are in a completely foreign land where the language is French, the aristocracy mulatto. It is, in fact, one of the two Black Republics in the world. The true Haitienne almost never appears in public excepting at formal functions.
COMMUNICATIONS ... All America Cables and Radio, 70 Avenue du President Trujillo. RCA Communications, Inc., operates direct radio telegraph facilities. Air-mail service.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the gourde, worth exactly 20 cents. No exchange restrictions.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED ... Passport and visa necessary only if you plan to stay more than 30 days. Tourist card is obtained on arrival, costs $1.00. Vaccination certificates. You may carry as much money as you want. One carton of cigarettes or 50 cigars allowed duty-free.
DRUG STORES ... At La Belle Creole Department store there is a complete drug and cosmetic section stocked with known products. There is a luncheonette just like home, and you can have ice cream, called creme a la glace, if you like.
FLORA .. . Palms, bougainvillea, hibiscus, frangipani, mimosa, mahogany trees and all the other tropical trees and flowers you might expect and some that you wouldn’t.
FOOD . . . Rice and beans are the mainstay of Haitian cooking. They are served as a separate course at the main meal of the day. Native cooking makes excellent use of spices. Their fish is wonderful, particularly langouste (rock lobster). Avocados appear frequently at meals and sweet potato pudding is a na-
[81]