NEW HORIZONS
BELGIUM (Cont.)
world. Several parks are open to the public in every city.
FOOD . . . Most people think that Brussels ranks with Paris when it comes to food. But it is not cheap. Famous are choessels a la Brusseloise (kidney), Waterzosi de Volaille (chicken in cream), Lobster in whiskey sauce, snipe cooked in brandy, chicken in sherry and the famous Namur Pate.
GAMBLING . . . Casinos at Knocke-Le Zoute, Blankenberg, Ostend, Namur, Chaudfontaine and Spa.
LANGUAGE... Flemish and French are the official languages, but anyone you contact will have a working knowledge of English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... All the hotels have quick, expensive laundry service, but dry cleaners are slow.
LIQUOR . . . Good French wines. Other liquors quite expensive. Whiskey and cocktails about a dollar a piece. Belgian beer is dark and good. Brandy is as popular here as in France.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are English-speaking doctors—Ask your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES . . . All foreign pictures with French or Flemish sub-titles.
MUSIC. . . The opera season at the Monnaie runs from September to May. There are symphony concerts and Ballet at the Palais des Beaux Arts.
NIGHT CLUBS. . . Night spots in Brussels are big and brassy and on the expensive side. You may have to pay around $2.00 for a highball and $20 for the bottle of champagne you’re expected to buy, but there’s no cover or minimum. Some require membership fees. Negro entertainers are popular here. Among the better known and popular places are the Parisiana, Le Boeuf Sur Le Toit, Le Slave, Nouvelles Equipe, Broadway, Tabarin, New Yorker and Maxim's. La Cave à Soutra and Les-Six-Jeunes-Hommes are less expensive, more intimate.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Shell Building, 55, Can-tersteen (Tel. 11, 64, 05).
RELIGION . . . While Belgium is a Roman Catholic country, there are churches of almost every denomination.
RESTAURANTS . . . Some of the most famous restaurants in the world are in Brussels. Among them are: La Couronne on the Town Hall Square (“Grand Place”); Restaurant Chantraine (“Epaule de Mouton”) over 290 years old, just off the “Grand Place”; Le Lion d'Or, well known for its steaks and fish; Rôtisserie Ardennaise on the Boulevard Adolphe Max; Astrid; Aux Armes de Bruxelles; Ravenstein; Le Mail, famous for duck and soufflés, The Carlton; The Métropole Hotel Grill.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Large department stores are open daily except Sundays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Principal ones include Au Bon Marche, a l’Innovation, Magasins de la Bourse, Galeries Anspach, and many excellent small luxury shops.
SIGHTSEEING. . . Among the interesting things for the tourist to see in Brussels are the Palais de Justice, the Royal Palace and Park, and the Parc Cinquantenaire. Almost a must are some of the famous cathedrals and churches, such as Notre Dame du Sablon, St. Gudule’s Church and the Eglise de la Chapelle. Of course, all tourists just for curiosity sake go to see the Manneken Pis, the famous statue, the oldest and most popular inhabitant of Brussels.
Most all sightseeing in and around Brussels can be accomplished in a very short time. Near the city is the park at Laeken, the Royal Residence and the Royal Hothouses and the Chinese Pagoda now a museum. The battlefield of Waterloo is a short distance from the capital, with its painted panorama of the famous battle and the Napoleonic relics. The Grotto of Han, 2 hours out is worth seeing. Of course, the museums mentioned under art.
side trips . . . Some of Europe’s finest beaches are in Belgium. The country is divided into two main sections: Flanders, the Flemish speaking section of the North, and Wallonie, the French speaking southern part.
Antwerp, a wealthy metropolis in the rich country of Flanders is a cosmopolitan town and international business center, a wealthy artistic town and above all a port, the largest in Europe and third largest in the world. Most of the wartime damage has been repaired, and here are some of the most famous
Gothic and Renaissance buildings in all Europe. The Gothic Cathedral has an exceptional carillon and many magnificent masterpieces by Rubens, which are kept covered until noon every day. The Town Hall in Market Place has a fine Renaissance façade. In one corner of the square are several old guild houses. The Museum of Fine Arts contains sixteenth and seventeenth century paintings by such great artists as Rubens, Memlinc, Breughel, Van Dyck and Jordaens. In the Museum Mayer-Van den Bergh, you’ll find other Flemish masters. Other places of interest are the Steen, tenth century castle, Butcher’s Hall and Folklore Museum which contain wonderful collections. There are excellent restaurants in Antwerp and the best hotel is the Century. Good restaurants are the Critérium and La Belle Meuniere.
Ghent . . . nearby is another place you won’t want to miss. There is a beautiful view from St. Michael’s Bridge. In one direction is the Enfilade des Monuments, consisting of St. Nicholas Church, Cloth Hall and adjoining Belfry and the famous St. Bavon’s Cathedral. In the other direction are several Romanic Houses and the Castle of the Counts. Other places to see are the Hotel de Ville, the Abbey de la Byloke, the Chateau of Gerard the Devil and the ruins of St. Bavon Abbey.
liege, is an industrial center of first importance. The richness of this territory has given birth to industries of all kinds, such as, heavy metal, iron and steel works, arms and automobile factories, crystal and glass manufacture. Its close situation to the German and Dutch frontiers has made of this town a great center of international traffic. It is the center of the Walloon’s artistic and intellectual learnings. It is filled with museums of ancient and modern firearms. See the Royal Theatre, the University, old churches and the Royal Palace. Northwest of Ghent is the famous medieval and religious center of Bruges. The Flemish Art Center is a great museum. Here are magnificent ancient buildings dating before the ninth century. Many lakes and canals.
hasselt introduces us to a peculiar kind of country: sand and fir trees, stretching miles and miles, whose healthy air has saved many people. This city is famous for its grain alcohol bearing the town’s name.
ostend, famed coast resort of Belgium is on the North Sea. Ostend has long been popular with tourists from all over the world, particularly the English. There is the Casino, racing, tennis and golf and, of course, the Thermal baths. Knocke-Le Zoute farther up the coast, is the newest and finest Belgian shore resort. Here they have the annual summer film festival. There is a casino, too and a wonderful hotel, La Reserve, built on a lake.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer games and football.
SPORTS . . . Yachting, deep-sea fishing, surf fishing, horse back riding, golf, tennis. You can go hiking, cycling or canoeing. There are Youth Hostels everywhere. The swimming is magnificent all along the coast.
THEATRES. . . Plays in French at Theatre Royal de la Monnaie, Theatre Royal du Parc, Theatre du Palais ides Beaux Arts, Theatre des Galeries.
TIME ... Six hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Usually about 15 percent is added to your bill at the better hotels and restaurants; if not fifteen percent is about the usual amount to tip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Good bus service. Taxis are plentiful but expensive. Trains about the same as in France. Most tourists travel second-class which is much more comfortable than the Belgian third-class.
WATER . .. may be drunk without danger in any major city or village. Water distribution is government controlled. Brussels water is especially good, due to its high calcium density.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Belgian lace from Flanders, blue pottery from Delft, Belgian porcelain, diamonds cut in Antwerp or Amsterdam, exquisite jewelry, Belgian crystal, sporting rifles, shotguns and fine cutlery. Belgian briar pipes are especially fine.
WHAT TO WEAR ... You do not need evening clothes in this part of Europe. Both men and women should take along medium weight clothes, with an overcoat for winter. Be sure to take a raincoat and walking shoes.
[29]