URUGUAY
WEATHER IN MONTEVIDEO—Lat. S34°53'—Alt. 30'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT, OCT. NOV. DEC.
( Low	62°	62°	60°	54°	49°	45°	44°	44°	47°	50°	54°	59‘
Temp. ■< High	83°	82°	78°	71°	66°	61°	59°	60°	64°	68°	74°	80 ‘
/ Average	73°	72°	69°	62°	57°	53°	51°	52°	55°	59°	64°	69'
LOCATION . . . Uruguay, the smallest of the South American countries, lies between Brazil and Argentina on the Atlantic coast. Montevideo is less than 150 miles from Buenos Aires.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This delightful little country is one of South America’s famous playgrounds. Montevideo, the charming gracious capital, is situated on the Rio de la Plata and the chain of beach resorts which extend for some two hundred miles up the coast provide an unparalleled vacation land. Uruguay is famous for its excellent hotels, its casinos, its wide stretches of sandy beaches. Punta del Este is known as the Riviera of South America and is the gathering spot for wealthy South Americans who enjoy the yachting, the aquaplaning, the gay night life (at the casinos) and the luxury of the cabana-dotted beaches, the magnificent hotels.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 2,340,000 in 1948 (the population of Philadelphia and Tacoma combined). A third of the population lives in the capital.
SIZE ... 72,172 square miles, about the size of North Dakota.
CAPITAL ... Montevideo with a population of about 850,000, the size of St. Louis, Mo.
GOVERNMENT... a republic with a constitution containing advanced social legislation.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American’s de luxe Clipper service 261/? hours (elapsed time) from New York. By ship from New Orleans or New York, 17 to 19 days.
MONTEVIDEO
ACCOMMODATIONS. . . Montevideo Hotels downtown include the Nogaro and the Alhambra. On Ramirez Beach: Parque (pronounced Par-kay) Hotel, which has a casino. On Pocitos Beach: Rambla (with casino) and Ermitage. On Carrasco Beach, 12 miles up the coast: Hotel Casino Carrasco (open only during the season, Dec. 8 to March 24), Cottage Hotel (open all year). All hotels listed, except Carrasco, are open all year.
Hotels at Atlántida Beach, 35 miles up the coast: Atlántida and Casino Golf Palace. Also, small hostels, like Chalet Remanso, Mi Cielo, Los Angeles. At Balneario Solis Beach, 62 miles up the coast: Hotel Alción. At Piriápolis Beach, 72 miles up the coast: Gran Hotel Casino Argentino, Embassy, Juvencia, Miramar, Italia, Atlántico, Perla, Rambla. At La Paloma, center for salt-and fresh-water fishing, 160 miles up the coast: Hotel Cabo Santa Maria. At nearby La Pedrera, Hotel La Pedrera. At Punta del Este, the glamour spot, 90 miles from the capital: Hotel Casino Nogaró, Hotel Casino Miguez, Hotel Casino San Rafael, Hotel España, British House. Most of them have casinos. Rates range from about $8 single per day, American plan.
ARTS. . . Museum of Fine Arts, at Park Rodó, contains works of Figari, Blanes and other outstanding Uruguayan painters. Historic Military Museum, at the top of the hill overlooking Montevideo Harbor, Municipal Museum of Fine Arts, at the Prado Park.
BANKS... Royal Bank of Canada; agent for American Express checks. National City Bank of New York; handles traveler’s checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . The Carnival held in Montevideo (usually in February) is the gayest, with the exception of the one in Rio. There is always a colorful parade of floats, carnival figures, grotesque and colorful costumes; music, dancing, and gayety. There are masked balls, fiestas, and merrymaking everywhere you turn. During the Summer season, Semana Criolla takes place (in March). This is similar to a Rodeo, and the gauchos or local cowboys come from miles around to participate. They wear the colorful traditional gaucho
costumes, the “bombachas” or full, baggy pant which is the sign of the gaucho today. Exhibitions of riding, breaking of steers, horse shows, are part of the show. Guitar playing is a gaucho accomplishment and their songs are similar to our Western folk songs, New Year’s day is gala with displays of fireworks.
CIGARETTES, PIPES, TOBACCO... American cigarettes are available at about 40c a pack. All brands of pipe tobacco, at correspondingly higher prices. For quantities that may be brought in duty free, see customs regulations below.
CLIMATE. . . Seasons in Uruguay are the opposite of ours. Their summer is our winter and vice versa. The season is December until March, usually considered the best time to visit Uruguay, although their autumn and spring are delightful too. The climate is springlike, dry and invigorating; frost is unknown. There is no hay fever.
CLUBS. . . Jockey Club; Club Uruguay. For golf and yacht clubs, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. . .
Dinner hour is very late; from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. There is a central information number to dial in Montevideo “213” which informs you on train schedules, airplane and bus times, weather reports, movie programs and anything else you might like to know about the city.
COMMUNICATIONS. . . All American Cables and Western Telegram. Long distance telephone; air-mail.
CURRENCY. . . Uruguayan currency is the peso which is worth about 50 cents. Best exchange rate is obtainable at one of the Cambios or money exchange stores located all over Montevideo.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED. . . Smallpox vaccination certificate and valid passport. No visa. Proof of citizenship handy to have. For short stays you may bring in one broken carton of cigarettes or one opened box of cigars or three small opened tins of tobacco.
DRUG STORES . . . Drug stores are modern and stock most things you need. Any special prescriptions are best brought with
[116]