NEW HORIZONS
SPAIN (Cont.)
place. Try some typical Spanish (Castilian, this time) food at the Hosteria del Estudiante. See the sixteenth century patio, part of the old university.
Barcelona, ancient and modern city, founded by the Cartha-genians in the second century b.c., the largest city in the country lies within a hilly amphitheatre facing the Mediterranean (2 hours by air from Madrid). Barcelona, besides being one of the most historic seaports of the Mediterranean, is rich in fine churches, in its Gothic Quarter, in its great avenues.
By all means visit the Gothic Cathedral, built almost directly over the site of the original Roman Temple of Jupiter. Do not miss the fine Monastery of Montserrat, with its wonderful boy choir, and its Black Virgin. Barcelona abounds with monuments, religious and civic, ancient ruins, modern architecture, and at least a dozen museums. Do not forget that Pablo Picasso, Nonell, Salvador Dali, Fortuny, Pablo Casals, Xavier Cugat and many other well-known artists come from this part of Spain. Barcelona is the place, above all, to eat sea food, best of the entire Mediterranean. It has music in its restaurants, which is famous throughout the country, superlative bullfights.
From Barcelona one can fly to the Balearic Islands in 40 minutes. Surrounded by a brilliantly blue sea and limpid sky, one can enjoy an ideal climate in winter and summer. Majorca, the “Golden Island”, besides its Gothic Cathedral, the Lonja and Bellver Castle, enjoys the supreme charms of nature. The sea forms beautiful coasts (famous “calas”) and splendid beaches. The interesting stalagmite and stalactite caves of Drach and Arta are well worth a visit. The other islands of the Majorca group, Minorca and Iviza, are equally rich in natural beauty and delightful beaches. These islands, always peaceful and full of different attractions, make your visit to Majorca a must.
Valencia . . . Ancient, beautiful Valencia, rich in historical interest, lies in the heart of the “Huerta de Valencia,” the rich plain that has Spain’s choicest orange and lemon groves. (Hotel Reina Victoria). The climate is dry and very mild, the lush land produces several crops each season; there are flowers in profusion everywhere. There is the import of old Greece, the province was once the independent Moorish Kingdom of Valencia (1021); it was retaken by Spain’s national hero, El Cid, and then lost back again to the Arabs. It belonged to Aragon, then to Castile. See the many white houses, showing the Moorish influence, the many monuments of historical interest. Valencia’s lures are its gay fiestas, the smell of orange blossoms, its wonderful clear sky. The whole countryside is a garden, and it is almost always spring. The fig, pomegranate, and the palm trees add to the riot of color, with hundreds of streams crossing the country everywhere. The almond trees, and the olive add more green to the landscape. The Cathedral, built on a former mosque, has beautiful paintings by Goya, see the palatial Dos Aguas Palace, the Museo de Bellas Artes. Wonderfully beautiful at any time, try to see Valencia in March, for its greatest feast day, March 19.
The Spanish Riviera, known as “Costa Brava”, stretches north to the French frontier. Charming, beautiful and unspoiled. Few large de luxe hotels, but many small inns where comfort and food is supreme. No night clubs, but wonderful food, bathing, etc., and a type of personal service that you don’t find, for example, on the French Riviera.
Farther south along the coast is Malaga. This Andalusian city is the center of Spain’s Riviera, wonderfully even, mild winters, with its beautiful park, fine harbor. Its museum, left to the city by the painter Degarin, is famed for its Murillo, and other more modern masterpieces. The National Golf Tournament is played here each winter, and there are tennis matches, yachting. There are horse races in February.
Seville ... (400,000 population) is of enormous importance, an artistic and archaeological center with one of all Europe’s most luxurious hotels (Hotel Alfonso XIII) with museums of interest, great churches, monuments, works of art. The fine arts Museum has the best Murillos, the Archaeological Museum has Roman and Arab art. Under Moorish rule for over five hundred years, the city has Arab architecture everywhere—see the Alcazar, and as part of the Cathedral, the famous Giralda Tower, twelfth century minaret. The glorious Maria Luisa Park; the Palace de la Duenas, belonging to the Duke of Alba; the houses
with their iron gates—all these and more will delight the tourist anywhere. Holy Week, and the Fair which follows it, is the time to see this great city at its glorious best.
granada, with its Alhambra, where our Washington Irving lived and wrote; Cordoba with its Mosque-Cathedral and its Fairs; and Romerias will interest you. Go if possible to Segovia, for a sight of its great Roman Aqueduct. You will like Salamanca, old university town on the banks of the River Tormes. Its Plaza Mayor, with its fine Town Hall, its magnificent arcades, and the Pabellon Real (Royal Pavilion), a remarkable Baroque example.
san Sebastian, world famous summer resort and capital of the province of Guipuzcoa, one of the three that form the Basque country, just cannot be missed. Its beach, famed La Concha (called the shell because of its shape) is visited by both Spaniards and foreigners each season by the thousands. The best of sport, car, yacht races, famous stake races for horses at Lasarte, the best Basque-ball players anywhere, and the very best bullfighting all are seen during the summer months. Stay at the Continental Palace Hotel, get there if possible during “The Grand Week” in August, and be sure to make reservations well in advance.
SPECTATOR SPORTS •. . The bullfight, of course, is the greatest national Spanish spectacle and more. Seeing at least one is a tourist must. All the bigger towns have their bull rings, most have their favorite matador. The pomp and color, the pageantry, the crowds, all add up to a show you must not miss. Madrid, Barcelona, Cartagena, Malaga, and Toledo, besides others, all have important rings. The season starts at Valencia during the festivities of the “Fallas” on March 19, the feast of St. Joseph, and end up in June at the fair there, and at Saragossa the second and third weeks in October. There are important ones at both Madrid and Barcelona every Sunday and feast day during the season, often on Thursdays, as well.
Madrid’s fine race track, th& Zarzuela, is one of Europe’s best, has good racing each spring and fall, perhaps the best on Sundays and feast days in October. Seville’s Pineda course is open both spring and September, October, with perhaps Spain’s best racing at the magnificent Lasarte course at San Sebastian. There are many big races run off" here during August and September, some of international importance.
Basque pelota, another great Spanish sport, is extremely popular, the year around. The world’s greatest professionals appear on courts in at least eight or ten cities, including both Madrid and Barcelona, with matches daily. San Sebastian has first-rank matches during the summer. The Association Football season runs from September until June, with every town of any size having its own team. The Spanish League is large, divided into three divisions, with the usual finals, and important cup play at the seasons’ end.
SPORTS • • • Winter sports will be good in Spain from December until April in normal years, and are centered in La Molina, and Puigcerda, in Gerona, at Candanchu (Huesca) and the Guadarama and Sierra Nevada, near Granada. There is good skiing, races and contests in all these winter centers. Spain is a genuine fisherman’s paradise; mountain streams with trout, splendid salmon fishing (so much so, it is said that 5,000 natives make their living fishing salmon, all with lines, no netting allowed in Spain). Sea fishing is good all along the coasts, with tuna taken from several centers. Good hunting in the mountains, deer, chamois, wild boar, and splendid duck shooting along the Guadalquivir River, famous everywhere. There are pigeon shoots all over Spain, spring, summer and fall. Madrid has an excellent 18-hole golf course, tennis is played everywhere. Public bathing pools in all the big cities, wonderful surf-bathing at San Sebastian and all along Spain’s extensive coast.
THEATRES • • • Madrid’s theatres, and those all over the country start very late, by our standards. Ten-thirty p.m. and sometimes even a half-hour later.
TIME • • • Six hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING • • • About 15 per cent, a little more for the taximen. You are expected to give the movie and theatre ushers a couple of pesetas. Make sure before tipping that the 12 per cent service charge has not been added already to your bill.
TRANSPORTATION • • • Taxis are liable to be hard to find,
[56]