BAY OF BENGAL
£hiengmai
SIAM (Thailand)
SOUTH CHINA SEA
MALAYAN STATES
WEATHER IN BANGKOK—Lat. N13°45'—Alt. 40'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	67°	70°	73°	76°	76°	76°	76°	76°	75°	75°	71°	67 ‘
Temp. -j High	92°	93°	95°	97°	95°	93°	92°	92°	91°	91°	89°	89‘
/ Average	80°	82°	84°	87°	86°	85°	84°	84°	83°	83°	80°	78'
Days of Rainfall	1	3	4	6	17	18	19	19	21	17	7	3
LOCATION ... In the southeast corner of Asia between Burma on the west, and French Indo-China on the east. Malaya is to the south, as is also the Gulf of Siam (part of the China Sea), and China to the north.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The people of Siam are Mongolian. Those in the north and northeast are much fairer in color than those in the south. Natives working in the fields sometimes can be quite dark so there is a wide range of color shades, from chocolate to quite pale whitish yellow. Along the river plains everywhere, especially in the large central plain seen from your Clipper, are rice fields as far as the eye can see. This is really the wealth of the country—Siamese rice. Among other profitable exports are tin, rubber, and teak. In the north, there is teak everywhere. Natives cut down teak trees and employ elephants to drag them to the banks of the rivers in order to float them downstream to the sawmills. Tourists will be struck by the pleasantness and almost childlike cheerfulness of the Siamese. Moderation even in virtue is characteristic of Siam. As the Spaniard says manana, so the Siamese says mai ben rai. It means “Never mind.”
POPULATION ... In 1947 Siam had a population of 17,324,291. It is now said to be about 18,000,000 or about the same as the Philippines.
SIZE . . . The area of Siam is 200,148 square miles which is about the size of the combined states of New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina.
CAPITAL . . . Bangkok, including the city of Thonburi, directly across the river, has a population of over one million inhabitants. It is the largest city in Southeast Asia and on the opposite side of the world from Bismarck, North Dakota. Bangkok is approximately the same distance north of the Equator as is the island of Barbados in the West Indies.
GOVERNMENT . . . Until 1932 Siam was an absolute monarchy. Since then it has been a constitutional monarchy with a House of Representatives of the People and the House of Elders or Senate.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Clipper, Bangkok’s fine airfield Don Muang (17 miles from Bangkok by a good road) is approximately 64 hours (elapsed time) from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland (Oregon), and Seattle; and approximately 72 hours (elapsed time) from New York. By ship to Kohsichang Anchorage (52 miles south of Bangkok in the Gulf of Siam) 50 to 60 days from New York . . . depending on the ports of call en route.
BANGKOK
ACCOMMODATIONS. . . There are four first class hotels (by Far Eastern Standards) in Bangkok as follows: Trocadero Hotel, privately owned with 45 rooms, capable of accommodating a total of 88 persons. The hotel is well situated in the business and shopping area. Oriental Hotel, privately owned with 50 rooms which accommodate 100 persons. The hotel has a picturesque location facing the river and is in the business and shopping area. Sitting on the lawn, sipping a cool drink, you’ll witness some of the most superb sunsets to be seen anywhere. Ratanakosind Hotel is owned by the Government. It has 52 rooms cap.able of accommodating a total of 104 persons. The hotel is situated in the northern district of Bangkok in Rajadam-nern Avenue and lies in the vicinity of many interesting sights of Bangkok. Suriyanon Hotel is also State owned. It has 24 rooms which can accommodate a total of 48 persons and like the Ratanakosind, the hotel is situated in Rajadamnern Avenue. There is also the Princess Hotel, the Pacific Hotel and the American Club, Phya Thai Road, run by an ex-American Naval Attaché.
The average cost of bed and breakfast is approximately 150 ticals, or about U. S. $6.75. European food is available at all meals and the prices are reasonable.
ARTS . . . The National Museum in Bangkok has an exten-
sive collection of Buddhist and Cambodian sculpture, magnificent Siamese textiles and porcelains, ancient musical instruments, masks, vehicles, jewels, etc. Bangkok has some three hundred Buddhist temples, many of which contain fine examples of Siamese frescoes and sculpture. The two most important are Wat Phra Keo in the Royal compound in which is housed the Emerald Buddha, and Wat Benjama Bohpit which contains one of the finest collections of bronze and stone Buddhas from every corner of the Buddhist world. Don’t miss the famous mural of the Ramayana. The Siamese excel in tempera painting, remarkable for its original colors and all-embracing bird’s-eye-view treatment.
BALLET . . . There is no ballet as we know it, but the world-famous Royal Siamese classical dancing is a must for tourists. It takes place at the Silpakorn Theatre, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8:30 p.m. during January, February, March, April, October, November and December.
BANKS. . . The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China; Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp.; Bank of America; Bank of China; Banque de l’lndochine; Indian Oversea Bank, Ltd.; Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd.; Nederlandsch In-dische Handelsbank N. V.; The Bank of Thailand. Traveler’s checks may be cashed in any quantity, either at the banks listed above or with licensed money changers at all hotels and at
[157]