NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRALIA (Cont.)
native to the country and may be seen in Sydney’s Zoological Park.
FLORA • • • New South Wales is famous for its vegetation. Distinctive to the section is the waratah, a rosette of red; the wattle which has yellow sprays; the flannel flower which has green tipped white petals; the red Christmas bush. These and many others may be seen at Botanic Gardens.
FOOD • • • Australians are great meat eaters. Lamb is a favorite. So are steaks and roasts. There is a variety of international foods obtainable in the cities. Sea food is fine here, too.
GAMBLING • • • Horse racing at several courses near the city with pari-mutuels or legal book-makers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES Most of the hotels have adequate quick service. Tasman dry cleaners guarantee their work.
LIQUOR • • • Australian wines are excellent. The vineyards are in New South Wales and the sparkling burgundy is particularly fine. Australian beer is good but stronger than ours. Whiskies, brandies and other imported liquors are obtainable at prices about the same as in the United States.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • The Sydney Hospital is modern and well staffed. There are fine doctors and dentists in the city. Ask at your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES • • • There are about eight cinema theatres in Sydney showing latest American and English films as well as other foreign releases. Pictures are shown there almost as soon as we see them. Chief theatres are: The Regent; Plaza; Century; Esquire, Embassy; Mayfair; Empire; Palace. Most of them have four shows a day. State, Lyceum, Victory. There are four newsreel theatres.
MUSIC • • • The world renowned Australian Symphony Orchestra headed by Eugene Goosens is here. Concerts are given at Town Hall during early March till October, and also open-air orchestral concerts. Visiting ballet companies, opera and concert singers appear at the Royal and at Town Hall.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS • • • There are many night spots. Among them: Celebrity Club, 105 York Street, for dancing Prince's, 42 Martin Place which is allegedly the hangout of Cafe Society.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE • • • Hotel Australia (Tel. BW4701).
RELIGION ... St. Andrew’s Cathedral (Anglican), George Street; St. Mary’s Cathedral (Roman Catholic), College Street; St. Stephen’s (Presbyterian), Macquarie Street; Westley Chapel (Methodist) Castlereagh Street. Central Baptist Church, George Street; First Church of Christ Scientist, Forbes and Liverpool Streets; The Great Synagogue, Elizabeth Street.
RESTAURANTS • • • Luncheon and dinner hour are early by our standards. Some restaurants are only licensed to sell hard liquor until 9 p.m. So if you want to sit around all evening, pick your spot. Among the good places to eat are Romano's which has an oyster bar; The Celebrity Club which has dinner dancing from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. and then supper dancing until 1 a.m.; Prince's which has good food and smart clientele; Coq d'Or which makes a specialty of egg dishes. They devote a whole floor to these. On the lower floor they serve many other things. Cheong On is in Chinatown and specializes in true Chinese food. Cafe Claire-mont in Sydney’s version of Soho, King's Cross serves international food. The’Elizabethan Inn also in King’s Cross is just what it sounds like, a Tudorish sort of place which has an old English air about it; Sirocco Coffee Lounge makes a specialty of snacks; and the Cahill chain is reasonable and good. Try Glen-eagles Restaurant, situated in the heart of King’s Cross, where the peoples of the world meet, dance and dine in most delightful outdoor surroundings.
SHOPS AND STORES • • • House of Curzon on Pitt Street features latest fashions from overseas; The Continental Bag Co., 11 Imperial Arcade, specializes in made to order lizard and crocodile bags and shoes; House of Prouds for opals for which they are famous. For woollens and blankets, shop at David Jones, Ltd., Elizabeth St., Sydney known famously as “D.J.’s” who display a fine array of both imported and local products. Specializing in tweed clothing; Farmer & Co., George St. Sydney cater to the well dressed citizen mainly through quality goods well displayed for public inspection in their- attractive window dressings.
SIGHTSEEING IN AND NEARBY SYDNEY Sydney often called the Harbour City is cosmopolitan and gay. Located on the coast of New South Wales it is surrounded by beach resorts which stretch for hundreds of miles in each direction. It is a city of tall buildings, parks, tree shaded streets. Its port is one of the world’s busiest. Hyde Park, almost in the center of the city is worth seeing. It contains war memorials, flower gardens and attractive walks. The underground (subway) traverses its length. Very near by are the Botanic Gardens on the edge of which stands the residence of the Governor of New South Wales. The gardens contain wonderful examples of Australian flora. At the Zoological Gardens which are reached by ferry from Circular Quay or by electric tram over the famous Sydney Harbour Bridge, there is a fine assemblage of indigenous Australian animals which are shown in surroundings which imitate their native haunts. Centennial Park reached by various electric tram lines is enormous and has magnificent flower gardens and lakes. Visit Fort Denison, a little island in Farm Cove off Sydney Harbour which was used to detain convicts. There are interesting relics to be seen there. Take a twenty-mile jaunt to Koala Park in West Pennant Hills where the Koala bears are kept in captivity under natural conditions. Nearby (about half an hour) is Bondi Beach, one of the most popular resorts on the coast. There is a Beach Pavilion, restaurants, swimming pool. Manly, another resort, is seven miles to the northeast of Circular Quay, the main ferry station. It is reached by ferry in half an hour. Here there is fine surf bathing, a promenade and, on the bay side, a swimming pool. Cronulla on the coast is seventeen miles away and has a fine beach and esplanade. Kurnell on Botany Bay is where Captain Cook is supposed to have landed. There are miles of beaches and pleasant resorts within a short distance of the city. Coogee, Dee Why and Palm Beach are particularly well known. The Blue Mountains, about two hours from Sydney are well worth a trip. There is a two-day planned tour from the city which takes you there or you may go on your own. The mountains range about 3,500 feet above sea level and fringe the Hawkesbury Basin. The scenery is magnificent and there are several towns with hotels for tourists. One of the sights are the Jenolan Caves, a series of limestone caverns. These are lighted by electricity, giving an eerie and beautiful effect. There are guided tours daily and the Jenolan Caves House has good accommodations. Near the caves is a bird and wild life sanctuary which is well worth a visit. Katoomba is one of the main towns in the region and from there you may visit the Minchinbury Vineyards, Wentworth Falls and Leura Falls all interesting. There are two National Parks within a comparatively short distance from Sydney. Kuring-gai Chase and National Park. Each is a sanctuary for animal and bird life and each features indigenous flora. Well worth seeing. Pay a visit to a “Station,” a native ranch if possible.
further afield—Canberra, the federal Capital of Australia is about 200 miles from Sydney. This is a modern city about 40 years old. It has a small population: 15,000, most of them Government employees. Pleasant gardens and some beautiful buildings.
great barrier reef . . . This great coral reef stretches for about 1,200 miles along the Queensland coast. It is reached by plane from Sydney in about three hours. Here you will find hundreds of small islands and coves almost completely unspoiled. There are plans for luxury hotels and resorts. And one at Hayman Island has opened. But for the most part it is a paradise for fishermen, surf lovers and people who like to laze around in the sun. At some points the reef is only about 20 miles from the mainland; at the widest it is 150 miles off. The most popular group of islands are the Whitsundays, south of Bowen. This group includes Hayman Island, Lindeman Island, Dream Island. These are the “high” islands on the inner edge of the reef. The “low” islands are part of the reef proper and are actually coral cays. At the Whitsundays, Lindeman is the first stopping place. Here is Mt. Olden from which you can see for miles and miles. Day Dream nearby is a jungle paradise and the fishing for mackeral, bonito, schnapper and swordfish is marvelous. Heron Island, about three hundred miles north of Brisbane, is one of the most beautiful of the “low” islands. It has a magnificent beach, a green lagoon, wonderful trees and flowers. The sea here
[172]