NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRIA (Cont.)
Post. Go to Alt Aussee and take a room at the Hotel Am See with a balcony overlooking the lake. While having breakfast watch the Dachstein glacier with the strange glints of morning light, go canoeing on the lake and watch the sparkling Dachstein glacier (you can almost taste the ice from the glacier). You should take a brine bath into which will have been dropped a few thimblefuls of strong pine oil which will give you an exhilarating feeling.
sightseeing along the Danube ... Because of the Russian occupation, it is not now possible to make the whole of the famous excursion down the Danube to Vienna. However, a trip from Linz northeast to Passau (near the border in Bavaria) and back is possible and very beautiful. The city of Linz itself is of great contemporary interest, and trips south of it into central Austria reveal an enchanting land rarely visited by tourists. If the trip from Linz to Passau is not an overly long one, it is certainly fascinating. The Danube, fabled in song and myth, is Austria’s destiny, and to know it you must venture out from Vienna to the hinterlands. And Passau itself, though damaged by war, is one of the area’s oldest and loveliest cities. Before leaving Linz, be sure to cross the bridge to Urfahr on the opposite shore. From Urfahr climb the Poestlingberg for the Danubian view, and pay a visit to the Abbey of Wilhering, a place of sublime simplicity famed for its gardens.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Lippizaner horses to be seen daily from September through June at the Hofburg. Horse racing at two tracks nearby.
SPORTS.. . Skiing tops the list. It is the national sport of Austria, and her mountains and climate are perfect for it. Skiing huts and lodges dot the countryside, and many fine ski resorts may be found in Austria. Near Salzburg is the Badgastein resort with three ski lifts, jump, bobsled run, and skating rink. The Arlberg and Kitzbuehel resorts west of Innsbruck are international favorites. The Obergurgl resort offers spring skiing. The St. Anton-am-Arlberg resort is known as “The Ski Capital of the World.” The Zuers affords international competitions. Austrian ski schools, trails, runs, and incidental facilities can not be surpassed. Austria contains over a thousand miles of perfect ski slopes. From January to June there are international ski events at all the, major Alpine resorts.
For golf the course at Dellach on the Woerthersee in Carinthia (Southern Austria) is well known. Tennis is popular; every
sizable resort and all Austrian cities having good courts. Sailing and rowing may be found on all the larger lakes, and the Austrian rivers lend themselves exceptionally well to flatboating. All the lake resorts offer swimming facilities. Cycling is carried out all over Austria. Hunting and fishing are widespread throughout the country. Opportunities for hiking and climbing are limitless. Trails are carefully marked, and the existence of the hut system and at least one clean, comfortable inn in every village makes it possible to range freely. All mountaineering equipment may be purchased on the spot, and professional guides are everywhere available.
THEATRES . . . State Opera, Burgtheater, Volkstheater, Theater in der Josefstadt. All plays in German only.
TIME . . . Six hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Hotels add a ten percent service charge to your bill, but you should tip an extra ten percent for special services rendered. A ten percent tip in other cases is recommended.
TOURIST TAXES . . . All resorts in the provinces charge a small kurtaxe.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis, streetcars, and buses are found in the larger cities, but taxis are not cheap. Good train service is maintained within the country. The cable railways up and down and across mountains are remarkable and entirely safe.
WATER . . . Water in Vienna is famous—from mountain springs, coming on aqueducts. You can drink the water anywhere in Austria.
WHAT TO BUY. .. Vienna is rapidly reestablishing itself as a shopping center. Knitwear, petit point, fine needlework are reappearing. Peasant costumes, of course, may be bought almost everywhere. Also hunting, fishing, and skiing equipment.
WHAT TO WEAR . . ; Take with you about the same clothes required for corresponding seasons in the United States, but warm clothes are needed for the Alpine evenings, and good, strong shoes always. Even if you do not plan to ski, heavy slacks or ski trousers are suggested for the provinces in winter. You will also need galoshes or furlined boots for walking in the provinces in winter. Formal dress is usually worn at the opera in Vienna and at the festival in Salzburg. Formal dress is also worn at the more fashionable resort hotels in the evening.
Heldenplatz is in the heart of Vienna and the location of the New Hofburg, (Imperial Palace). Across the Ringstrasse is the domed National Museum.
On the famous Gross Glöckner high alpine road in Southern Austria, you view magnificent mountains including Gross Glöckner, Austria’s highest peak, over 12,000 feet.
Rising majestically above Vienna’s rooftops, St. Stephen’s Cathedral, affectionately called “der alte steffl,” is an impressive landmark dating from the 12th century.
Castle Orth at Gmunden Resort, Traun Lake in Salzkammergut lake region southeast of Salzburg. Traunstein mountain is in the background.
Kitzbuhel below is a typical tyrolian village and famous international resort. Note the “onion” tower, typical of Byzantine influence.
[39]