NEW HORIZONS
BARBADOS (Cont.)
SIGHTSEEING ... In Bridgetown, the capital, you must see St. Michael’s the Anglican cathedral, which was rebuilt of coral rock in 1780 after the original building had been blown down during a hurricane. George Washington and his half brother Lawrence went to church here when they visited Barbados in 1751. Other places of interest to the visitor are Codrington College on the Atlantic, the oldest university standing in the British colonies; St. John’s Church which contains the tomb of Ferdinando Paleologus, one of the last descendants of the Christian Emperors of Greece, who died in 1678. There is a magnificent view of the town from St. John’s Church. In the days when there was a sugar “boom” there were some magnificent houses built in Barbados. Only a few of these remain. One of them is Farley Hill, built in a lovely wooded spot 800 feet above sea-level by someone long since forgotten, but rebuilt in the middle of the nineteenth century by Sir Graham Briggs. A magnificent variety of fern (the farliense) was developed there. Tourists usually flock to the graveyard at Christ Church, scene of the tale of the Barbados coffin mystery. The story goes that a vault there which had not been opened in 70 years until 1807, was found to be “empty.” A short time later a child and a woman were buried there and a little bit later another funeral was held. Then it was found that the coffin of the child was standing upright and the one of the woman had been disturbed. And the same such occurrences are said to have been found each time there was a funeral, until 1820 when the Governor went to the churchyard and ordered all the caskets removed and put in separate graves. The vault has been left open since and strangely enough, there has never been any hint of it at any time being “haunted.”
The Barbados Museum, an interesting place to see is at St. Michael, one and a half miles from Bridgetown. Bathsheba, 14 miles from the town, is a beautiful seaside resort. It is here at Tent Bay that it is fun to watch the flying fish fleet come in daily. At Holetown, a short distance away, there is a beautiful monument commemorating the first landing of the British. Perhaps the best known of the historical sights is Sam Lord’s Castle, on the southeast coast (now a hotel). It was built by Samuel Lord about 1820. Lord was a planter whose one desire was to acquire enough money to build the finest home the island had ever seen. And he did. It is an imposing structure having four entrances
with steps of black and white marble, and around the top are medieval battlements. The interior of the building is magnificently decorated mostly in stucco and the ceilings are of particular note. You should certainly see the pottery market in Bridgetown, on Trafalgar square, and pay a visit to the Public Library which is open to visitors. Some of the world’s finest beaches are in Barbados and safe and good swimming is one of the main pastimes. The average temperature of the water is 77 degrees. The Paradise Beach Club is one of the best. It’s at St. Michael which is close to Bridgetown. The clubhouse is a beautiful modern building, and has 18 guest rooms. You can arrange to get a card. Another one of the fine beach clubs is the Barbados Aquatic Club where you can obtain excellent hotel accommodations.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Cricket, football, basketball, polo and water polo, horse racing, yacht regattas, tennis matches, and golf matches.
SPORTS . . . Golf at the Rockley Golf and Country Club overlooking the sea. There is a good nine-hole course. Tennis at the Savannah Club, the Royal Barbados Yacht Club and others. Fishing is wonderful—barracuda, dolphin, king fish, flying fish, mullet and other varieties of fish are to be caught in Barbados. You can hire a boat with a native boy to handle it. Polo, horseback riding, cycling, water polo, swimming, moonlight swimming parties and picnics are popular here. You can also hire sail boats.
THEATRES . . . None except the cinemas.
TIME. . . One hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . About the same as at home, the usual 10 to 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION ... You can hire cars; take a tour of the island in one for $12.50. You can also rent bicycles and there is a motor omnibus. Service to various parts of the island. Horse and carriages to hire, too, and taxis.
WATER. . . Excellent. Barbados is noted for its good pipe water supply which you can drink unboiled and unfiltered.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Barbados rum, of course, all types of English goods, sweaters, tweeds, linens, gloves, leather goods, curios, perfumes, shoes.
WHAT TO WEAR... Same kind of clothes you would wear in the summer time here. Better take a topcoat and evening clothes.
Tourists pause on bridge to chat with harbor policeman wearing straw hat in Town of Bridgetown. In background the picturesque fishing and cargo boats and buildings of Bridgetown.
Native fisherman shows tourists his net on the beach at the Paradise Beach Club. The Paradise Beach Club affords excellent ocean swimming, fine cuisine and bar.
L 93 ]