NEW HORIZONS
COLOMBIA (Cont.)
LANGUAGE . . . Spanish is the universal language, but English and French are widely spoken. The traveler from the United States has no trouble making himself understood.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Available in every section of the city. Twenty-four-hour service in hotels if desired.
LIQUOR... Native drink is Aguardiente, a fiery corn liquor. All liquors are available, but are expensive.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are many English-speaking doctors and nurses who have had training and experience in the States.
MOTION PICTURES • • • There are large, comfortable movie houses. Largest is the Teatro Colombia. However, most of the movie theatres in town are good. The open air theatre, La Media Torta, located at the national park, presents plays, musical shows, dances and ballets on almost every Sunday, free for children.
MUSIC . . . Bogota has an excellent conservatory of music and a national orchestra. The conservatory band plays Sunday mornings in the Parque Independencia. Very often famous artists from all over the world will perform at the beautiful and traditional Teatro de Colon.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . High Society prefers the Grill Europa and the Grill Room of the Granada Hotel where there is often a floor show. Others are the Symphony, The Casbah, the Florida and La Flambée. These are among the best and are typical of those in the states.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... In Barranquilla the ticket office for Pan American and Avianca is at Paseo Bolivar, Esquina República (Tel. 5346). In Bogota at Carrera 7 a Nos. 16-14 and 16-46 (Tel. 15819).
RELIGION . . . Colombia is a Catholic country and has seventeen cathedrals. The Protestant church, where the English-speaking colony attends is the Union Church of Bogota.
RESTAURANTS .. . The food at the top hotels is good. High continental cuisine is featured at Grill Europa, noted above. There’s a cocktail lounge also. Gran Vatel is newest restaurant, also serving European dishes. La Flambée for French food and wine. The Temel is noted for seafood and steaks, has native dishes too. Other restaurants are Cyrus and Cafe Alster. All private clubs, such as the Bogotá Jockey Club have wonderful food (card required).
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Shopping center is Carrera 7, which is also the commercial center of Bogota. Some of the many good shops are: Valdiri, Picadilly, Almacén Bogota, Jennie, Camacho Roldan, Gregory. All open six days a week (8 a.m. to 7 P.M.).
SIGHTSEEING .. . There are many old colonial buildings in Bogota dating to the pre-Bolivar era. The Palace of San Carlos where the Liberator once lived should be visited. Likewise the Teatro de Colon and the churches of Santa Ines, San Ignacio, San Agustín, La Tercera, San Diego, and San Francisco. All of these are very old. Most of Bogota has been rebuilt and is quite modern. The Parque Nacional is the largest park in the city; it extends to the foothills of the mountains surrounding the city. The Parque Independencia is charming and there are band concerts on Sunday. The Quinta Bolivar is an attractive estate with magnificent gardens. The mansion has been turned into a museum. The Capitol Palace is imposing, made of brown stone veined with gold. The National Library is a wonderful example of modern functional architecture. There are at least sixty churches in the city. The Cathedral on the Plaza Bolivar is beautiful and one of the oldest on the continent. Among the works of art is a sepulcher of tortoise shell inlaid with silver and ivory and a shrine containing golden filigree work set with thousands of precious stones. Bogota has been called the Athens of Colombia because of its interest in things cultural. Its seats of learning are many and you should see the Colegio Nacional de San Bartolomé founded in 1604. Near the capital is Monserrate, a peak that may be ascended by funicular. There is a famous chapel on the summit. The Salto de Tequendama is a waterfall thirteen miles from the capital. It was an Indian shrine, and there are many legends connected with it. There is a hotel Del Salto, which commands a view of the falls. Las Salinas de Zipaquira, thirty miles from the city, are salt mines which are quite spec-
tacular. They are entered through a portal and when the white galleries are lighted it is something to see. By car and horseback go to Laguna de Guatavita, thirty-five miles from the capital. A lagoon rimmed by high mountains which was held sacred by the ancient Chibchas and legends of El Dorado, the man not the place, are related about it. If you are planning to spend some time in Colombia, there are four cities of importance to visit: Cali, Cartagena, Medellin and Barranquilla. Cartagena and Barranquilla are ports on the Caribbean.
barranquilla is the country’s chief seaport and is a bright, modern city. It is a place of contrasts of streamlined cars and boys riding on burros, of a native dance known as la cumbia and modern jazz. It gets cooler from November to March. Best hotel in the city is Hotel del Prado- immaculate, luxurious. Also don’t miss the Hotel Pradomar at the seaside resort, 20 minutes away. The country clubs have fine golf courses, tennis courts and swimming pools. Wonderful deep-sea fishing nearby.
Cartagena is a wonderful old walled city which lies on a sandy peninsula. The streets are narrow and the houses have hanging balconies and patios and are tinted in a variety of lovely colors. There are many interesting old buildings and fortifications. The forts themselves are fascinating. And there is good swimming at Marbella Beach near the old walled city. And on Tierra Bomba Island where the beach of Boca Grande lies. There is a new super de luxe Hotel del Caribe located at Boca Grande. The bedrooms have tiled floors and everything is spotless. Cartagena was once the stronghold of the Spanish Main and is worth a visit.
cali is a city in the rich Cauca valley with a mild altitude and pleasant climate. There are eight parks in the city and many buildings of colonial interest. The city has boomed in the last twenty years since the railroad came to Buenaventura. There are many magnificent haciendas in its environs. Hacienda El Paraíso which figured in Jorge Isaac’s “La Maria” should be visited. The orchid plantation of Señor Horacio Gomez may be seen. Located about four miles from Cali some 300,000 orchid plants of different colors and species are grown here. Newest hotel is luxurious Hotel Aristi with excellent dining room. The Alférez Real is on the Cali River which runs through the main thoroughfare of the city. The Pension Menendez is also good. The Club Campestre de Cali is an ancient hacienda surrounded by orchid draped trees in which humming birds flit. It’s the social center of the city and an extraordinary place.
Medellin also famous for its orchids is situated about 200 miles north of Cali. It has a summer-like climate and is a garden spot. It is also an air route junction for all parts of Colombia. The Avenida Libertadores runs along the bank of the Rio Medellin and is flanked by wonderful trees and houses with gardens. It is a busy industrial city which has not lost its atmosphere. Its mining school is one of the best. Its hospital, one of the most modern. There is a wonderful hotel, The Nutibara, which is one of the most magnificent on the continent. Gold and scarlet coated boys tote your luggage. The rooms have gorgeous views of the mountains and the food is fine. The Medellin Country Club is a must, the smartest folk in town are to be found at it. Rooms may be obtained, too. There is racing, soccer, golf and all other things you expect. (Invitation by a member required.)
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing Sundays at the Hipódromo. Bullfights Sundays in February to March at the Circo de Santamaría in Bogota, one of the finest bull-rings in the world. Boxing and wrestling matches at the Circo de Santamaría. Polo matches at the Polo Club de Bogota, Polo Club de Santa Fe. Soccer is the national sport. Baseball is played in Barranquilla and Cartagena. Cockfighting is popular.
SPORTS . . . There are many golf courses in Bogota. Among them: The Bogota Country Club (cards required, 36-hole course). Tennis courts at the Los Lagartos Club and the Country Club. Polo at Polo Clubs mentioned above. Hunting and fishing expeditions to various parts of the country can be arranged. There is excellent hunting and the big game hunter can have a wonderful time. There is excellent duck shooting in the country, too. Good marlin fishing is to be found at Barranquilla. And the river port of Girardot about one hundred miles from the capital offers excellent fishing. Many of the country clubs have pools, should you wish to swim.
[133]