NEW HORIZONS
HAWAII (Cont.)
chilled guava, nectar, papaya health juice. There are many restaurants and hotels where you can get international food. And of course there are wonderful Chinese and Japanese restaurants.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Modern facilities same as in the States.
LIQUOR ... All of the usual brands are available at regular prices. There are exotic drinks with floating vanda orchids, such as Moana Banyan Court Punch.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Same as at home.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Same as at home.
MUSIC . . . Honolulu Symphony. Leading musical organization of the Islands. Members of the orchestra are working people of offices, plants and military forces in Hawaii under the leadership of a competent director. Chamber Music. The Leib-recht group is an outstanding quartet. Artist Series. Visitors can enjoy good music presented by the finest visiting artists. Then there is the Hawaiian music so familiar in the States.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS.. There is a tremendous variety of night life in Hawaii, although the typical night club is in the minority. Dancing at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel is the fashionable thing to do. At the Polynesia Bar and Restaurant you can see a good hula.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Dillingham Transportation Bldg., Bishop and Queen Sts. (Tel. 86421).
RELIGION . . . There are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS ... Top hotels all have several dining rooms and specialize in excellent food. One of the best known and popular restaurants is Lau Yee Chai in Waikiki. Its outdoor dance floor has a vertical rock garden and waterfall. The food is superb. A wonderful Japanese restaurant is Mochizuki. It’s a series of little islands interlaced with canals and connected by bridges. You have to call here several hours in advance to order dinner. Be sure to attend a Hawaiian Luau, a combination of the best native dishes and Polynesian entertainment. Some of the places which feature these are Don the Beachcomber, Kame-hameha Alumni Clubhouse, Bishop’s Luau Gardens. Luaus are by reservation only. Cocktails at the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, Merry-Go-Round Bar or the Waikiki Tavern, and the Kamaaina Bar at the Moana are among the best.
SHOPS AND STORES .. . Honolulu is a wonderful place to buy oriental wares. For Chinese objets d’art and other Chinese goods, Sun Jun Hing is one of the best places. The Watumull Stores in downtown Honolulu and Waikiki are good places to buy hand-blocked linens and other textiles, Hawaiian sportswear, carved Hawaiian woods and lauhala bags. Lauhala is the leaf of the pandanus tree from which all sorts of novelties are made. At Waikiki as well as in downtown Honolulu there are many other good shops.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Within Honolulu there are many attractions, walking tours are popular or if you prefer the sea to the streets, there is a wide range of boat accommodations available, and you can take one of the famous glass bottom boat trips either day or night. Other things you will want to see are Aloha Tower for a panoramic view of Honolulu Harbor and the city and hills of Honolulu. The Hawaiian Village is an exact replica of ancient Hawaiian homes in Ala Moana Park near the Ala Wai yacht channel and the sea. Iolani Palace, former royal palace of the Hawaiian monarchy is now the seat of territorial government. A trip through the pineapple canneries is not to be missed. Regular tours are conducted on canning days. The Honolulu fish markets are fascinating. Located in an area of interesting Chinese stores, native fishermen sell octupus, squid, a tremendous variety of brilliant fish and other seafoods. Also of great interest is Fisherman’s Wharf where the sampans that do most of Hawaii’s deep-sea fishing gather. You will not want to miss seeing Upsidedown Falls, a phenomenon that occurs when a heavy rain is falling over the cliffs and is blown upwards instead of falling downwards. Take a waterfront tour along Ala Moana from the yacht harbor at the Ala Wai canal to Aloha Tower. In Ala Moana Park you will see all sorts of sailing and fishing craft, the Hawaiian Village, interesting family groups picnicking and the Kewalo basin fishing center.
A must on your list should be a trip to Chinatown. While the buildings are not as distinctive as in San Francisco, the small
apothecary, jade, food and other shops are well worth seeing. For the flower lovers in addition to the abundance of exotic flowers to be seen everywhere, there are special hibiscus drives and walks along the streets of the lei makers. Also the Foster Gardens, which are public gardens containing all flowers, trees, and shrubs which grow throughout the tropics. Other Oahu island attractions which can be included in a round-the-island tour by U-Drive car, taxi or special Gray Line tour are: Pearl Harbor, site of the disaster which started World War II for the United States and is now the home of the Pacific fleet. The Navy Yard, open to the public on Saturdays and Sundays. Diamond Head, a part of Honolulu and the city’s greatest landmark. Diamond Head Crater at the eastern end of Waikiki is another place you won’t want to miss seeing.
island of Hawaii .. .The Island of Hawaii, known as the big island is dominated by the spirit of Pele, the fire goddess who causes the volcanoes of Mauna Loa and Kilauea to erupt. Mauna Loa is the world’s most active volcano and you will certainly want to see it. You will also want to go to Kilauea and Halemaumau, the fire pit thought to be Pele’s home. Make your headquarters in the city of Hilo which is the second largest city in the islands. The chief hotels are the Hilo and the Naniloa, both excellent. In the National Park section about twenty-five miles from the city is the Volcano House, situated on the very edge of the crater Kilauea. It is heated by the steam of the volcano and is a fantastic spot. The hotel is at an elevation of 4,000 feet, so take some warm clothes with you. Among other things to see on Hawaii are Akaka Falls at the end of magnificent tropical gardens; Kalapana Beach which has black sand churned from the lava of the volcano. Paradoxically there is skiing in winter on the slopes of the volcano and hunters shoot wild goats there. It is possible to climb the volcano, but it takes a hardy soul to do it. Hawaii Island is the place of the second largest ranch of the United States, the Parker Ranch. There is a hotel, the Waimea Ranch Hotel in the middle of the ranch which is fine and comfortable. On the Kona coast of the island, there is marvelous fishing and the Kona Inn is the headquarters for deep-sea fishermen. There are boats for charter and there are big game fish to be caught. There is swimming and relaxation and good food. There is still an occasional beachcomber to be found on the Kona coast and the natives live the sort of idyllic life you have always thought existed on tropical islands. It is the last stronghold of old Hawaii.
maui . . . On Maui there are inns and villages at various altitudes rising from sea level to the rim of Haleakala, the world’s largest dormant volcano. The Hotel Hana-Maui at the eastern tip of the island is the last word in luxury, but there are others more moderate. Gam’s Silversword Lodge is located within the Hawaii National Park at an altitude of 6,800 feet. So warm clothes are needed. It is open from June to September when trips to the crater are made. There are regular guided tours to the Great Crater which may take one or two days as you wish. The Crater is an extraordinary sight with its cinder cones rising thousands of feet. The cones are in brilliant colors as well as black and the unique Hawaiian flower, the silversword, grows near and around them. You may descend to the floor of the crater on horseback. Lahaina on the lee side of the island is reached by the Lahaina-Wailuku Road noted for its scenery. There you will see the biggest banyan tree in the islands and the Church of the Holy Innocents with an Hawaiian Madonna painted from a native model. While on Maui, try to see a hukilau or community fishing party at Hana. A huge net is taken out by boat and when the signs and portents are right, the net is cast. Everyone then tries to touch the net as a proportion of the catch goes to everyone, who does so.
kauai is known as the Garden Island because of its foliage. Captain Cook landed there and legend is rife. The Kauai Inn at Lihue is modern and excellent. It is American plan and has everything from swimming pools to Saturday night hula shows. One of the largest sugar mills on the islands is here. This is an island where you will do well to hire a U-Drive car or a private car for you will have more fun and see more that way. Hanalei on Kauai is one of the finest beaches on the islands. There are also on the lee side the Barking Sands with five-foot coral and lava dunes. The sand when rubbed sounds like a dog barking.
[144]