NEW HORIZONS
FINLAND (Cont.)
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... The City of Helsinki Board of Health (near Market Square) arranges home calls by doctors any time of the day or night.
MOTION PICTURES . . . All languages, mostly in English.
MUSIC . . . Helsinki Symphony Orchestra gives concerts during the season at the University Hall. Opera at the Opera House. You should try to hear the Finnish Opera, The Maid of Pohjola, by the Finnish composer, Oscar Merikanto. It has been more than fifty years since the Fjrst Symphony of Jean Sibelius was first heard. Sibelius is not only Finland’s foremost composer, but is renowned the world over.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Kalevankatu 3 A. (Tel. 68 22 68).
RELIGION . . . Finland is 96 per cent Lutheran, but there are Methodist, Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches, and synagogues.
RESTAURANTS . . . There are dozens of restaurants in Helsinki besides the hotel dining rooms. Some of the better ones are the Monte Carlo, Savoy, Motti, Torni, Kappeli, Vaakuna and IValhalla, and there are also many restaurants where they have music for dancing. Among these are the Adlon, AIppila, Kalasta-jatoerppa and Fennia. They have temperance restaurants, too, the Elanto, Kestikartano, Primula.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Stockmann’s Department Store, Co-operative Stores, Elanto and Hok.
SIGHTSEEING . . . While the City of Helsinki is over 400 years old, most of the present city was built after the turn of this century which accounts for its modern architecture. There is a lot to be seen in Helsinki, which is called theWhite City of the North. You should take a walk through the beautiful parks and squares where some of Finland’s most magnificent sculpture can be seen. In front of Stockman’s store on the Main Square is the famous statue of the “Three Smiths.” Near the Finland Travel Bureau, Esplanaadikatu, 19, is the statue of “The Maid of Helsinki rising from the sea,” and on Observatory Hill one of their most famous symbolic statues “Shipwrecked.” All of these have been done by outstanding Finnish sculptors. Visit the Olympic Stadium where the 1952 Olympics will be held; other places to see in Helsinki are the Parliament Building which is open to the public on the first Sunday of every month; other times by appointment. The President’s Palace, at the Market Square, the beautiful City Gardens at Elaintarha Park. Take a ferry from the foot of Aleksanterinkatu, to Korkeasaari Island for a visit to Finland’s only zoo.
A must is to visit the great church of Suurkirkko, a magnificent white stone structure, open every weekday from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. Another famous church is the Johanneksen kirkko open on weekdays from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. At the Social Museum you will see an exhibition of Work Protection and Social Welfare work. From the Stadium tower you get a wonderful view of the entire city of Helsinki.
side trips . . . One of the most beautiful trips to take from Helsinki is to the cities of Tampere and Aulanko. You may fly, or go part of the way by motor bus and water bus. Tampere is the third largest city in Finland, (pop. 108,000). Here is one excellent hotel, the Tammer. The Tammerkoski rapids flow through the town and many important industries are located here. Take a trip to the top of Pyynikki ridge where you will get a wonderful view of the city and its surrounding lakes. Other places to go to are the Cathedral with its famous fresco paintings and Nasilinna, the provincial museum which is on the top of a hill, where you get an excellent view of Lake Nasijarvi. There are two Art Museums here too, which house fine collections of modern Finnish Art. If you are here in the summer, try the Rosendal summer restaurant.
From Tampere you go by bus to Vehoniemi (45 minutes). There is a delightful tourist inn here in case you want to stop over before proceeding by water bus to Aulanko, the No. 1 tourist center of Finland. The water bus takes you through typical Finnish lake regions. Food and refreshments are served on these “buses.” Aulanko is on the shore of Lake Vanajavesi facing the town of Hameenlinna. The Aulanko Hotel, is the finest and most modern in the country, and is surrounded by the Aulanko National Park one of the most beautiful in all Finland.
The restaurant in the hotel has an orchestra and floor shows. There is a private bathing beach, tennis courts, and, of course, the traditional Finnish Sauna bath, in addition to medical treatment and baths. One of the historic sights to see is the Hattula Church which was built in 1250. Town of Hameenlinna facing it is where Jean Sibelius was born and went to school, and a magnificent medieval castle built in the thirteenth century. From a tower high up in Aulanko National Park you get a wonderful view of the entire surrounding lakeland.
lapland . . . No visitor to Finland would miss a trip to Lapland which is just as beautiful in the summer as it is in the winter. There are many legends about Lapland, one being that “it casts a spell on the visitor which compels him to return again and when he goes a second time he may stay, and if he does he’ll turn into a reindeer.” To reach Rovaniemi, the capital of Lapland you may go by air in 4 hours or by train in 22 hours. Lapland was almost completely destroyed in the war, but has been entirely rebuilt. Rovaniemi is the gateway to the North. There is a good hotel here, the Pohjanhovi and many tourists’ inns and ski lodges. Every tourist has heard of the Midnight Sun. There is daylight here continuously for two months, May to July. There are still about 2,000 native Lapps in existence and they are a particularly proud race. One thing a visitor MUST not do, is stare at the Lapps in their native costumes nor try to intrude on a Lapp “Kota” (home). Lapland is rapidly becoming one of the most popular resorts in Finland. Transportation is excellent, buses will take you to the most far-away villages. In the winter it is a wonderful place to enjoy winter sports. Skiing on the mountain slopes (practically unequalled anywhere else) continues far into spring. Reindeer-joring, is an exclusive sport in Lapland. This is getting in a one-seated “pulka” and following the leader. (They say the driving is easy), and skimming over the snow. The annual Ounas-vaara International Games held in Rovaniemi are the biggest winter tournaments in Northern Europe. During the short period of summer, Lapland is a splendid place for the fisherman, canoeist or hiker. Fish are plentiful in Lapland waters; trout, salmon and grayling are found in the streams, Iaveret and pike in the lakes.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Racing, yachting regattas, auto and motorcycle races, track meets, Finnish baseball which is called Pesapallo, international canoeing competitions, cycling championships, tennis matches, soccer, and in the winter, the International Winter Games, skiing and ski jumping competitions and reindeer races.
SPORTS . . . Swimming, log rolling, tennis, football, golf, sailing, skiing, fishing, hunting. The best fishing season is from the beginning of June to the end of August. The hunting season is in the autumn. The best skiing is in March when the snow reaches its greatest depth. Canoeing and hiking are favorites.
THEATRES . . . Almost every town in Finland has its own theatre where foreign as well as Finnish plays are produced. In Helsinki there is the People's Theatre of Helsinki, which gives regular performances at the Old Student House, the National Theatre at Station Square and the Swedish Theatre and others. For programs and time, see the newspapers.
TIME . . . Seven hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . There is a fifteen per cent service charge added to your hotel and restaurant bills. The Finns do not encourage extra tipping. Taxi drivers and others are not tipped as they are in the United States.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis are easy to get; bus and train services excellent. Also water buses to take you to some of the outlying places. You can hire private cars with English-speaking guides. Taxi fares are twelve times the meter reading and are more after 6 p.m.
WATER . . . Excellent.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Finnish glass, Arabia china, and pottery, ornaments of brass, wood carving, fabrics, hand blocked linens, and articles made of woven birch bark, reeds, wickers.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Heavy clothes in winter months (fur coat, ski togs), and light weight clothes for the summer months. Better have a coat even in summer. Fur hats in Lapland in winter season.
[50]