NEW HORIZONS
ARGENTINA (Cont.)
French. In Buenos Aires there is what is called the “bodegón” or corner restaurant, which is comparable to that little out of the way spot at home that you and a few others know about. Sometimes they are good; sometimes terrible. Worth a try if you come across one you think you might like. Good average priced place is La Estancia, which serves fine steak. Its murals of Argentine life are worth a look. La Pasteur in the theatrical district is open late, even for Buenos Aires. Yapeyu is another late one open all night. There are hundreds of bars in the city, but take note of the Plaza, the Continental, the Boston Bar and Charley's American Bar. All the hotels have cocktail lounges, too. The confitería or tea room occupies a unique place in Buenos Aires. Unlike our tea rooms, they are very smart and are frequented by the very best of Argentinian society. Tea time (4:30) is the fashionable hour. They combine the best features of our cocktail lounges, soda fountains and tea rooms. A visit is a must. Confitería El Galeón; Gran Rex; El Molino, Ideal, are tops.
SHOPS AND STORES • • • The big stores are open from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Some of the smaller ones are apt to close two or three hours for lunch. Shopping is an event of importance in Buenos Aires. In fact, the main shopping center, Florida, is closed to any but foot traffic for most of the day. The shops in the Argentine capital are among the finest in the world. The two largest department stores are Harrod’s and Gath & Chaves. For textiles and tailored suits stop in at Roel. For luggage and leather goods, Pedro Mayorga. For handmade shoes, Araluce-Del Leon, Lopez Taibo. For good leather and Indian rugs it’s Mattaldi Ltd. For some interesting records of “camp” or gaucho music similar to our Western songs sung in tango rhythm, go to Breyer’s, Maipu 457. The city is a center for jewels and silver. Inexpensive alligator bags are available all over town.
SIGHTSEEING IN BUENOS AIRES . . . The Calle Florida is the main shopping street. Avenida Corrientes is the Broadway. The Avenida 9 de Julio is said to be the widest avenue in the world. It has five lanes for traffic separated by grass plots and parking space underneath for 1,000 cars. One of the best ways to see the city is by taxi or hired car. Here are some suggested rides: Out the Avenida Alvear to Palermo Park. From the Plaza de Mayo to Plaza del Congreso, then go along the Avenida General Paz. La Costanera is a drive along the waterfront. Palermo Park has everything: a rose garden, a race course, a summer theatre, miles and miles of beautiful walks, drives and paths. Hire a horse drawn coach and see it. There are few old buildings in the capital, as it is essentially a modern rebuilt city. There are some interesting old churches. The quarter of the city known as La Boca is atmospheric, mostly Italian and by the waterfront. Interesting if you like local color. Take a look at Casa Rosada, the pink house occupied by the President of the Republic. The Hall of Congress is worth seeing, too. Among the old churches visit La Merced, the Cathedral on Plaza de Mayo, Santo Domingo and Nuestra Señora de Pilar. El Tigre, the delta of the Parana River, is about 45 minutes from the capital and is the favorite nearby resort. It is an island, with small channels running for miles—an ideal spot for a picnic, rowing or swimming. Private launches may be hired to make a tour of the islands on which are many fine private homes and clubs. There are also many “recreos,” open air restaurants with picnic grounds. The river is filled with rowboats, sculls and launches. There is an international regatta here and many, many shell races.
lujan is a typical camp town about an hour and a half out of the city. There is a magnificent Gothic Cathedral, where pilgrims flock each year. The Virgin of Lujan is the patron Saint of Argentina. There is also a famous museum, the Cabildo, which is an old Town Hall preserved from colonial times. There is a natural park along the river.
la plata, about an hour’s trip from Buenos Aires, is the university city of Argentina. The Natural History Museum has a wonderful collection of prehistoric animals, and a wonderful race-track.
mar del Plata, on the Atlantic ocean, about 250 miles from the capital, is Argentina’s leading beach resort. Here is the famous Casino Mar del Plata, the largest in the world. There are many beaches here. Cabanas may be rented at Bristol Beach. St. James Beach is filled with private clubs. There are about
250 hotels at the resort. The Riviera is open the year round; the others during the season. Among the tops are: Hermitage, The Tourbillon, The Nogaro, The Royal. Apartments may be rented, too. Fishing is fine here and the seafood is famous. From Mar del Plata you can make trips to the estancias at Chapadmalal and Ojo de Agua where two of the famous breeds of Argentine racehorses originated. Necochea, south of Mar del Plata, is the second largest beach resort. Still further away is Tandil in the hills. A favorite summer resort.
iguassu falls on the Brazilian border, about 1,300 miles from the capital, (4/2 hours by plane or 6 days by boat, is one of the most magnificent sights in the world. The falls are greater than Niagara or Victoria Falls..The season here is May to November. Hotel Cataratas is the place to stay.
argentine-chilean lake district—Go by plane to (San Carlos de) Bariloche which looks like a Swiss village and in fact was settled by the Swiss. This is in Nahuel Huapi National Park which has several distinct regions. The popular spot is Lake Nahuel Huapi where there is a government operated hotel, the Llao-Llao (pronounced yao-yao). The lake is at an altitude of
2.000	feet and is surrounded by mountains which point some
12.000	feet upward.During the winter season (July to October) there is excellent skiing. Game is protected, but you may get a permit to shoot wild boar. Fishing is magnificent. Lake Traful, about four hours from Bariloche, is a trout fisherman’s idea of heaven. You can climb the peaks, too, if you want. Club Andino Bariloche arranges things and furnishes guides. The hotel is excellent, the food very good. Take the boat trip (motor launch) to Puerto Blest at the end of a ten-mile fjord. You pass Cascada Blanca, a huge waterfall from the great glaciers. From Puerto Blest you can go to Puerto Alegre on the Chilean Border and continue into Chile or return to Bariloche and Buenos Aires. If you go on into the Chilean lake regions you will cross the border at Puerto Alegre. In Chile head for Lake Todos Los Santos as far as the Villarica Lake. Here you stay at Pucon at The Pucon Hotel where there is a golf course, good salmon fishing and swimming. For further information on Chilean lake region see Chile.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing at Palermo and San Isidro. At Palermo the grandstand seats 30,000; at San Isidro it seats 50,000. Polo matches are played at Hurlingham and at Las Tortugas Country Club and Palermo. Soccer is the national game. Matches at River Plate Stadium which seats 100,000 people. Pato, a sort of basketball on horseback, is dangerous and restricted to a point. Horse shows, important social event at Club Hipico Argentino and at the Exposición Rural in August. Boxing and wrestling matches at Luna Park.
SPORTS . . • There are many excellent golf courses at the clubs. You need a guest card which can be arranged through an introduction. The clubs include: The Jockey Club, the San Isidro, the Ituzaingo, the Olivos, the Hurlingham, the Don Torcuato. At the latter you need no guest card. Tennis is played at Hurlingham, the Jockey Club, the Lawn Tennis Club of Buenos Aires, the Lawn Tennis Club Argentino. Cards are needed. There are public courts at Palermo. Horseback riding is popular and there are miles and miles of bridle paths in Palermo Park. Horses may be rented from Rustici’s among other stables. Swimming: The country clubs all have pools. Rowing is one of the favorite sports. At Él Tigre some 45 minutes from the capital, there are many boating clubs. There are also several sailing and yacht clubs for which cards may be arranged. Fishing usually means a trip somewhere. To San Martin de los Andes, Nahuel Huapi, Traful or Sierra de la Ventana. All of which are overnight trips at least. For Dorado fishing you go up the Paraná River some 36 hours away.
THEATRES . . . Evening performances start about 10 p.m. But there is a before-dinner performance at 6 p.m. At Teatro Ateneo try to see Luis Sandrini, the favorite comic of the country. At Teatro Maipu you’ll see slapstick and girls. At the Odeon visiting French companies hold forth. The Cervantes Teatro Nacional is a repertory company presenting modern and classic plays. There are many other theatres in the city.
TIME .. .Two hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
[120]