NEW HORIZONS
PANAMA (Cont.)
big game fish. There are giant tarpon, marlin and sailfish to mention a few. The mountain streams of Panama have some of the best trout in Central America.
FLORA . . . The rich tropical vegetation and bizarre flowers of Panama are often breath-taking in their beauty. Orchids grow in profusion all over the countryside. The majestic palms are everywhere, especially along the superb beaches. If you go up into the highlands you’ll see the huge coffee plantations of Panama’s large coffee industry. The entire Panamanian landscape is a riot of colorful beauty.
FOOD . . . There is some very fine eating to be done in Panama. You’ll often begin a meal with delicious sancocho, a light chicken stew made with native vegetables. The natives boast that the Panamanian Tamale is the best in Central America. Other Panamanian dishes you will probably want to try are garbanzos con tocino which are chick-peas with bacon; fried yuca root and stuffed beef brisket called lomo relleno. Patacones de platano verde are a cocktail hour delicacy. Arroz con polio, a universal dish in Latin America, is especially good in the Panamanian manner. There is good American cookery in Panama, too. Some French cuisine with Spanish overtones can be had. Meals are about the same price as in the States because of the equality of exchange between the balboa and the dollar.
GAMBLING . . . The National Lottery is universally popular. Drawings are done every Sunday morning after Mass. Roulette, chemin-de-fer and craps are the most popular games. There is horse racing with pari-mutuels every Saturday and Sunday. There is also betting on other sporting events.
LANGUAGE . . . The official language is Spanish, but most of the people also speak English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... At establishments such as Gambotti y Perez (La Perfeccion) 29th Street East No. 6, you can get 24-hour service.
LIQUOR . . . Rum is the most popular drink in Panama. It is usually served in long, cool drinks like Planter’s Punch and Rum Collins made with fresh tropical fruits. All the regular brands of whiskey and liquor are available in Panama at about the same price as in the States.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are modern hospitals in Panama City, Colon and the Canal Zone. American trained, English-speaking doctors are available. The Republic takes great pride in its high health standards. Ask at your hotel if you need a doctor’s care.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are motion picture theatres in most large centers showing American and South American films. Bella Vista, Lux, Central, Presidente, Cecilia, Tropical for movies in English with titles in Spanish. El Presidente is the most popular for Spanish-speaking picture theatres.
MUSIC . .. You’ll hear all kinds of music all the time you are in Panama. The combination of native music and the influence of jazz has given an individual slant to the Panamanian type of Latin music. The Symphony Orchestra of Panama give concerts at the National Theatre during the winter season.
NIGHT LIFE AND CAFES . . . Panama City is a gay, all-night town. Most hotels have music and dancing. Especially nice is the Sky Roof of the Hotel Internacional. Most famous night spot is Mamie Kelly's, good bar, food and floor-show. Also gay are the Balboa, Tourist's Club, the Rialto (the most lavish night club in Panama), and the Ritz Happyland, a rather slapstick atmosphere, but fun. A moonlight drive through the ruins of old Panama to the dance hall out there is a nice way to spend an evening. There are a variety of beer-gardens that are fine for quiet drinking. Jar din de Balboa and the Jardin de cerveza Atlas are both very nice.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... Calle “L” #5 (Tel. 2-0670).
RESTAURANTS . . . One of Panama City’s best restaurants is the Jardin El Rancho. Wonderful food and drink are served under the stars. There’s good eating in the hotel dining rooms, both native and American cooking. Atlas Mike's Place, Mamie Kelly's, and Rice's Silver Dollar Bar and Restaurant are all excellent places to dine. Meals in Panama cost about the same as they do at home.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Central Avenue is the great shopping center in Panama City. Names of good shops include:
French Bazaar, American Bazaar, Motta’s, Novedades Antonio, Quinta Avenida, Maduro.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Panama City, like the entire Republic, is an interesting mixture of Old Spanish culture and Western Hemisphere Civilization with overtones of native Indian culture. The city is divided into three parts: the present city, Old Panama (destroyed by the famous pirate, Morgan in 1671) and the beautiful residential sections. Your sightseeing trips should include the San Francisco and the Cathedral, the largest churches in Panama City, facing on the Plaza Catedral and the Church of San Jose with its famous Altar of Gold, saved from the original church in Old Panama City. The native market place is bustling and colorful. Here, native fishing boats bring their daily catch to be sold. See also the Presidencia, home of Panama’s presidents. The patio is very lovely and beautiful, plumed egrets wander through them. Bolivar Plaza contains a handsome monument of Simon Bolivar, one of Latin America’s greatest heroes. Walking along Las Bóvedas Promenade you’ll have a glorious view of the Bay of Panama. The Palace of Justice, a fine example of Spanish colonial architecture faces the Promenade. The Church of Santo Domingo on Calle 3A has the famous Flat Arch.
The King’s Bridge is the first thing to see in Old Panama. It marks the boundary of the old city. The best place to start your tour of the ruins is the plaza in front of the old cathedral. Stone pillars mark the site of the first administration building. Going toward the sea you will come to the great arch that was part of the original San Jose Church that housed the Golden Altar. Nearby are the ancient dungeons and a stone font that was used to baptize slaves. Driving back from the ruins of Old Panama, go through La Cresta; it is the fashionable residential section, full of fine homes and lovely gardens. The view of Panama City and the harbor from La Cresta Hill is breath-taking.
colon and the canal zone . . . No one going to Panama should miss seeing the Canal Zone and if possible crossing the Isthmus through the miraculous Panama Canal that links the world’s two largest oceans. Coming from Panama City, you first reach the town of Balboa, headquarters of the Zone. The Administration Building has interesting murals depicting the history of the canal. The Orchid Gardens in Balboa are breath-takingly lovely. Ancon is the residential district of Balboa.
This is where your excursion trip starts. The trip through the Canal takes about eight to ten hours by steamer and it is well worth the cost of ten to fifteen dollars. One is able to watch the giant locks in action and generally get a ringside seat to watch the entire engineering masterpiece perform. Once you are through the Canal to the Atlantic side, there are the twin cities of Cristobal and Colon. Cristobal is in the Canal Zone and Colon is in the Republic of Panama. Cristobal is primarily a port city full of the colorful mixture of sailors of the nations of the world. Colon is a very cosmopolitan city. The night life is very gay. A visit to the famous Strangers Club is a must. Marvelous food can be had at the excellent Hotel Washington run by the government. Bilgray's Tropic or the Monaco Gardens are both good for eating and having a good time. Colon’s shopping center is Front Street.
portobello ... Near Colon, Portobello, the old fortress city, is an important sight to see. The “King’s Treasures,” gathered from Peru and Colombia were stored here. The fort was used to ward off the attacks of the pirates in the early days of Spanish conquest. There are daily tours through these interesting historical ruins. The San Bias Islands are off the coast near the Atlantic entrance to the Canal. Here, the Indians have lived in much the same manner for hundreds of generations. The trip to the San Bias takes about eight hours and it is like visiting another world, so different is the entire civilization of these people.
taboga, island of flowers . . . Beautiful Taboga, often called the Island of Flowers, is located on the other side of the Isthmus about 12 miles from the Pacific entrance to the Canal. During the California Gold Rush Taboga was an active trading port, and before that a haven from the ruthless pirates who sacked Panama City. Today it is one of the loveliest resorts in Panamanian waters. The fishing and swimming here are very fine. The Hotel Paraíso La Restinga offers cool and pleasant accommoda-
[109]