NEW HORIZONS
NASSAU (Cont.)
SIGHTSEEING . . . There are many interesting places to see in Nassau. A trip to Nassau’s Forts should be included in your sightseeing. Fort Charlotte, with its eerie dungeons, about one mile west of Rawson Square is the largest. It is at the western entrance to the harbor.. At Fort Fincastle on Bennet’s Hill you get a magnificent view of the city and the harbor. Historic Fort Montagu overlooks the bay. Nassau’s Streets are lined with historic old churches and beautiful Colonial houses. Some interesting public buildings on Bay street which you should see are the Council Chambers, the Post Office, the House of Assembly, the Public Library and the building which houses the Colonial Secretary. All of them are patterned after a group of buildings including the Governor’s Palace, the Council Chambers and public offices in New Bern, North Carolina, U. S. A. Government House, official residence of the Governor of The Bahamas and his family, is a beautiful Colonial-type residence located on Mt. Fitzwilliam, at the top of George Street. A statue of Christopher Columbus, sculptured in London under the direction of Washington Irving, stands on the lawn in front of Government House. It was presented to the colony in 1832. Nassau seems to have plenty of wishing wells. In Ardastra Gardens, near Fort Charlotte there are wishing wells, quaint rustic bridges in a setting of beautiful flowers, shrubs and trees. The British Colonial Hotel is built over Blackbeard’s Well. There is a legend that anyone drinking the water of this well will surely return to the Bahamas. Blackbeard’s Tower, now the ruin of an old watch tower overlooks Tower Village Heights, four miles from Nassau. Queen’s Staircase, Union Street, is a flight of sixty-six steps said to be hewn out of solid rock by hand and it leads to Fort Fincastle. Nearby on Bennett’s Hills is the Water Tower, 126 feet high. Visitors may go to the top of the tower by elevator, where they will get a wonderful view of the city and harbor. The Tower is the first landmark seen by ships approaching the Island. Queen’s College should be included on your tour, too. Founded in 1871 as the Nassau Collegiate School, in Trinity Wesleyan Chapel. In 1890 it was renamed Queen’s College and moved to Victoria Hall. Don’t miss a trip to the open air market where Bahamian craftwork is sold. It is on Rawson Square, between Prince George’s Wharf and Bay Street. A short boat trip from Prince George’s Wharf will take you to the Sea Gardens famous for underwater growth of coral, anemones, fans and plumes. There is an esplanade just west of the British Colonial Hotel, which overlooks the harbor. The obelisk is a memorial to the group of men lost in the attempt to save the crew of a wrecked pilot ship. Paradise Beach, one of the world’s most famous beaches is a fifteen minute boat ride from Prince George’s Wharf. Here there are bath houses, cabanas, tennis courts, bar, restaurant, game rooms, everything you can possibly want. Palm shaded boardwalk and recreation buildings.
out islands . . . Nearby out islands of The Bahamas, easily accessible by plane or boat are the Islands of Bimini, Harbour Island and Eleuthera. The Bahamas are noted for their wonderful fishing. Bimini is unsurpassed for reef fishing throughout the year and especially good fishing for amberjack, barracuda and grouper during December to May. Bimini has excellent bonefishing, also tarpon. Big-game fish, such as tuna, and blue marlin can be caught during the season. The tuna run opens the early
part of May and ends about the end of June. Additional Information can be obtained from the Executive Secretary of the Bimini Big Game Fishing Club. Boats with captain and mate may be chartered. Prices for bone-fishing which is handled by native guides is about $15 to $20 a day including the skiff. There are two excellent hotels here, the Anchors Aweigh, rates about $18 per day, American plan and the Comp leaf Angler, rates about $16 per day, American plan.
harbour island and eleuthera . . . Accommodations are very limited on these islands. Life is very simple here; there are no sports except swimming, fishing and sailing. You have to be invited to go fishing or sailing by a local resident; they are very exclusive, most of them having moved here to get away from the tourists. Harbour Island has one of the most beautiful beaches of pink coral sand. There are two places to stay: Sea view Hotel which accommodates eleven to twelve persons and the Little Boarding House which can take four to six guests. Meals are good at both places. Rates run from about $5 to $6 per person, including meals. In Governor’s Harbour there is the Belmont which accommodates about four persons. Rates, including meals, about $6 per day. French Leave has fine double bedrooms with private baths. This is on the ocean and has a private beach. Rates about $12 per day, including meals. At Rock Sound, Eleuthera there is the Three Bays Club, a little resort of its own. Here there is a salt-water swimming pool, tennis courts, guest cottages with private baths and excellent food. Rates from about $12 to $14 per day, which include meals and club amenities. Planes and small boats leave frequently for these islands.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Yachting regattas, local and international; International golf and tennis tournaments, fishing tournaments; horse racing every Friday at Hobby Horse Hall (pari-mutuels); boxing at the Community Center; prize fighting is becoming very popular here.
SPORTS . . . Golf at the Bahamas Country Club, guest card may be arranged; tennis at Bahamas Country Club, Paradise Beach Club, Nassau Lawn Tennis Club, Lucayan Tennis Club and at many of the hotels. Fishing, fully-equipped cruisers to rent. Sailing boats for hire are available, you can rent bicycles, too. Spear-fishing is one of Nassau’s most popular sports. Water skiing; good instructors are available.
TIME . . . Same as New York.
TIPPING . . . Same as at home, the usual 10 to 15 per cent.
TOURIST TAXES... If you stay less than 48 hours, 85c, if over 48 hours, $1.70 upon departure.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis (28 cents for the first mile and 14 cents for each additional mile) per person. Horse and carriages, bicycles, and cars for hire.
WATER. . . Good, but if you prefer, the hotels will serve you bottled water.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Woolens, tweeds, English silver, blankets, doe skin gloves, Kent brushes, Liberty Silks, perfumes, liquor, tortoise shell articles and china. All at much more reasonable prices than at home.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . Light summer clothes, a topcoat, sweater, many swim suits, and formal evening clothes. It is almost a must to “dress” at Nassau during the season (December 20 to Easter).
Here tourists examine several sponges for sale on the “Sponge Dock” —the sponge industry used to be a mainstay of the Bahamas.
You’ll enjoy a tour of busy Prince George’s Wharf, Nassau, in one of the quaint horse drawn carriages common to the Bahamas.
[69]