NEW HORIZONS
DENMARK (Cont.)
cable and telegraph facilities all over Denmark.
CURRENCY .. . The krone is the principal unit worth 6.92 kroner to the dollar. (Buying rate 6.85). You can bring in unlimited foreign currency, but only 100 Danish kroner.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Your American passport is all you need to enter Denmark. Bring your international driver’s license if you plan to hire a car. If you stay longer than three months, you must register with the local police.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Your passport is sufficient identification all over Denmark.
DRUG STORES. . . Known as “Apothek,” Danish drug stores can supply all your drug needs with American or equivalent foreign products.
FAUNA . . . Danish forests abound with deer, hare and wild fowl and game birds. The fishing in Danish lakes, streams and along the sea coasts is excellent for both sportsmen and for the great fisheries that are one of the principal industries. Graceful swans are found in the parks and sea gulls are as common as pigeons in Copenhagen. Ducks waddle around among the people in Danish parks. Denmark is principally agricultural. There is a marvelous agricultural show the last week of June in Copenhagen.
FLORA . . . Denmark is a land of gay and beautiful flowers. The parks of Copenhagen are among the most beautifully landscaped in the world. Lilacs and roses are everywhere. The beech is the national tree of Denmark. There are gorgeous pine forests and lovely meadows and farmlands.
FOOD . . . The Danes love to eat and eat well. They have done the most with the sandwich idea. There are over 200 varieties of delicious open-faced sandwiches available, the so-called “Smorrebrod” which are the uniquely Danish variety of smorgasbord. The Danish dairy products, especially cheeses are among the most outstanding in the world. The milk is marvelous. Seafood is a national specialty. Here, Danish pastries are so deliciously different from the American variety, you’ll wonder why we’ve been kidding ourselves at home. The variety is infinite as well as the calorie count with every bite of the flavor. Boiled cod, fried eel (stegt aal), and a weirdly delicious soup made of pumpernickel and beer are Danish national dishes, too. Dinner is served at about seven, lunch at noon and breakfast from 8:00 to 9:00 in most restaurants. The Danes are great consumers of coffee and enjoy tea. Cocktails are served, but not in all circles. You can eat three very good meals a day in Copenhagen for about five dollars.
GAMBLING . . . Gambling is prohibited except at government controlled race tracks and other sports events.
LANGUAGE .. . The official language is Danish of course, but English is understood even by the man on the street in Copenhagen.
LAUNDRY AND CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Though service is not as fast as in American establishments, Danish laundries and dry-cleaning plants are excellent. Most hotels in Copenhagen have their own facilities.
LIQUOR. . . Snaps, Cherry Heering and beer are the national drinks. Scotch and American whiskies are not available and you may not like Danish whiskey, but all gin drinks are available and very good.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Medical care is available to tourists at a very low cost at the government health clinics. There are excellent doctors and dentists throughout the country.
MOTION PICTURES . . . English and American pictures and other foreign films are shown in Copenhagen. Better motion picture theatres include the Alexandra, the Palladium, Dagmar, Kino Palaeet and the World Cinema. See the local papers for time and program.
MUSIC . . . Opera alternating with the Royal Ballet at the Royal Theatre is one of the outstanding features of the winter in Copenhagen. There is an excellent symphony that performs at the Copenhagen Concert Hall and a visiting artist or musical group once a week during the winter. Also in the attractive Concert Hall of the Broadcasting House, the symphony orchestra of 90 musicians gives concerts weekly. During the summer, daily concerts are held in Tivoli Gardens.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Night life in Copen-
hagen is gay and inexpensive. The National Scala is one of the largest night clubs in the world. Two thousand people can dance and drink and eat here without crowding. Lorry is a big happy confusion consisting of a restaurant, a bar, theatre and the Landsbyen, a huge cabaret with a glorious floor show. The Adlon Club is the most chic in town (open from midnight to 4 a.m.) Tourists need only show their passport. A dance floor and small, intimate floor shows are offered. The Ambassadeur and the New Look are attractive and atmospheric. The gayer of the moderately large cabarets include the Atlantic Palace, and Valencia. There is dancing at Wivex and in the summer at the Bellevue and Nimb. Also, most hotels have good orchestras and other entertainment. There are numerous sidewalk cafés and little bars throughout Copenhagen. You’ll soon find your own favorite spots in this good-time city.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE .. . Dagmarhus, V. Boulevard 12. (Tel. By 10.000).
RELIGION. . . The state religion is Lutheran. Other sects represented include Catholic, Episcopal, Methodist, Presbyterian and Jewish.
RESTAURANTS . . . No one in Copenhagen should miss a visit to Davidserís, the world’s greatest sandwich emporium. They serve 175 different varieties, all delicious and reasonably priced. Davidsen’s is also good for seafood. Excellent restaurants are located in the Tivoli Park area: the Belle Terrace and Divan II. The Nimb and the Wivex have lovely dining terraces. Excellent French food and a Parisian atmosphere prevails at Au Coqd'Or. Krog's at the fishmarket for the tops in seafood. Frascati serves an interesting mixture of Danish and Italian cuisine on their charming sidewalk terrace. The Cafe de Paris and the De 7 smaa Hjem (7 small homes) are also first class. Old Danish atmosphere prevails at the Viking in the Palace hotel. Delicious snacks can be had at the George's Bar. Det Gyldne Lam (Golden Lamb) is also worth mentioning. Eating being one of the Danish national pastimes, it’s hard to find a poor restaurant in Copenhagen. You’ll seldom go wrong just walking into the first place that appeals to you. The restaurants listed above are among the most widely known.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . All shops close at 5:30 in the afternoon on weekdays and at 2:00 p.m. on Saturdays. Copenhagen is one of the great shopping centers of the world. There are wonderful shops like those in Paris and New York.
SIGHTSEEING . . . The King lives in the beautiful Amalien-borg Palace. The Changing of the Guard takes place at noon. The royal reception rooms in Christiansborg Palace are open to visitors Thursday through Sunday. Other sights are the Grundt-vig Church which is situated in the middle of the new residential quarter of Bispebjerg and the Church of our Saviour with a spiral staircase outside the spire. The Copenhagen zoo is one of the most important zoos in Europe. Orstedsparken is one of the loveliest parks in Europe surrounding a charming little lake full of graceful swans. Other sights of interest include the Rosenborg Castle, the University of Copenhagen, the Houses of Parliament and the Gefion Fountain at the entrance to Copenhagen’s favorite promenade Langelinie where also the statue of the Little Mermaid can be seen. The Tivoli is a famous amusement park in the center of town, where you can dance, hear a symphony, dine or ride a Ferris Wheel. Side trips from Copenhagen can be made through the lovely surrounding countryside. You can go to Kronborg (Hamlet’s) Castle 28 miles north. Bellevue Bathing Resort is only 8 miles from Copenhagen. The Deer Park is a beautiful wooded area where horses and carriages can be hired. At Lyngby there is an interesting Open Air Museum, featuring old Danish farms (folk dances on Sundays in the summer). Fredensborg Castle is the lovely autumn residence of the Royal Family. Hornbaek Beach, 40 miles from Copenhagen is worth visiting. In Copenhagen, regular sightseeing tours take place daily: City Tour, Northsealand Tour, Copenhagen by Night Tour, Canal Tour and the new “Lifeseeing” Tours, featuring modern Social Welfare institutions, or the Arts and Crafts Tour.
A wonderful way to get your first view of Copenhagen and environs is by the little motor boats that chug through the canals of the city and the surrounding coastline. Well-planned guided
[47]