NEW HORIZONS
FRANCE (Cont.)
away is the Church of the Madeleine which is a must on anyone’s list. You must see: Notre Dame on the Ile de La Cité and the Palais de Justice. There are lectures and tours through the Great Cathedral that are most interesting. You must also see the Tuileries Gardens along the Rue de Rivoli; you can’t miss the Eiffel Tower or the Opera. You must go to the Left Bank and take a look at the Boul’ Mich or Boulevard St. Michel. The Sorbonne is nearby and the Pantheon. The Luxembourg Gardens and Palace are here, too. Of course, climb the hill to Montmartre with its twisting streets and many restaurants and cafés. Sacré Coeur stands on top of the hill and you get a magnificent view of the city below. Back in the heart of Paris you will of course see the Place Vendôme, The Rue de la Paix. Take a stroll down the chain of Grands Boulevards: Boulevard de la Madeleine, Boulevard des Capucines, Boulevard des Italiens, Boulevard Poissonnière, Boulevard St. Denis, Boulevard St. Martin, which form a wide continuous avenue of shops and theatres.
Drive out through the Bois de Boulogne with its lakes and fine restaurants and bridle paths. It’s charming.
Browse at the open book stalls along the Seine, visit the markets in the early morning and have onion soup. Pay a visit to the Hôtel des Invalides and Napoleon’s tomb. In fact do anything that interests you. It is all fascinating.
Versailles—fontainebleau . . . There are many short trips out of Paris to the environs which are practically musts. Versailles is twelve miles away. Here are the gardens, the Palace of Louis XIV, the Grand Trianon and the Petit Trianon. You can see La Malmaison on this trip, too. The home of Napoleon and Josephine. Fontainebleau with its Renaissance Palace, its formal gardens is fascinating. You can visit this on a standard tour or drive it in a cab. Fontainebleau, once a 12th Century fortress, was reconstructed in the 16th Century and eventually became the favorite residence of Napoleon. Drive through the 42,000 acre forest.
Go to St. Germain-en-Laye just a short trip from Paris to see the Royal Palace with its mile and a half long terrace. A trip to Chantilly—Compiègne is interesting. The latter is the spot of the German surrender in 1918 and the French surrender in 1940. There is a large Palace in the Park where there is a collection of Gobelins tapestries.
At Chantilly there is a huge chateau set in a formal park. Chartres is about a day’s trip from the city. Visit the Cathedral of Chartres noted for its stained glass windows.
the chateau country . . . No visit to France is really complete without a trip through the Chateau country, the center of which is Tours. The Hotel Univers or the Métropole are both good. Make this city your headquarters and then take any of the standard trips to Blois, Amboise, Chaumont, Chenon-ceaux, Chambord, Loches, Luynes, Langeais, Villandry, Azay-le-Rideau, Chinon. Some of the chateaux are furnished in magnificent style. Some are in ruins and some are viewed for their architectural interest. Azay-le-Rideau contains a kitchen which is a rarity. It has, too, a Fontainebleau tapestry ordered by Charles I for the city of Rome. Villandry is famous for its Spanish Museum, its beautiful gardens. Chenonceaux is one of the most famous and is the castle given to Diane de Poitiers by Henry II. The gardens were ruined in 1944 by bombings but the chateau was unharmed. Blois contains an ornate staircase in its inner court. Here, too is the death chamber of Catherine de Medicis and her private chapel. Amboise is furnished with period pieces, Aubusson tapestries, and there is an interesting collection of 15th and 16th century armors in the guardroom.
Chambord is an enormous place with 365 rooms. There are innumerable turrets and spires, a wall surrounding the gardens and an estate which is the largest in France.
Visit Vouvray while in Tours. Here is where some of the finest white wines in the world are made.
Visit the vineyards with their acres and acres of grapes. While in Tours take a run down the Cognac country if you are a brandy fancier. Here is the world famous center for the Cognac which takes its name from the city and the region. A little further on is Bordeaux which is as famous for its wines as Cognac is for its brandy.
pyrenees-t-basque region ... In Southwest France the
Pyrenees stretch from the Atlantic to the Mediterranean in a natural boundary line between France and Spain. On the coast of the Bay of Biscay is Biarritz, a famous beach resort made fashionable by the Empress Eugénie. There are luxurious hotels, a casino, excellent restaurants and a wonderful beach nearby. Not quite so fashionable but smart in its way is St.-Jean-de-Luz which is slightly less expensive. Biarritz is expensive, about $25 per day American Plan.
Pelota is a favorite local sport or you can see a bullfight at Bayonne nearby.
If you are heading eastward to the Mediterranean, you will go to Lourdes, home of the famous vision of Bernadette. There are many hotels and pensions here. The grotto is a national shrine and the Cathedral is composed of three churches built one above the other with hundreds of memorial chapels donated by pilgrims to the shrine. The baths are nearby where each year thousands of afflicted come to bathe in the holy waters. It is estimated that more than a million people make the pilgrimage to Lourdes each year. Luchon in the Pyrenees looks into Spain. It has excellent ski runs and thermal baths. There are dozens of hotels, best of which are the Pyrénées Palace and the Sacaron. Skiing is excellent on Superbagnères, a six thousand foot peak with a wonderful hotel at its summit.
pau is an interesting city with a fine bridge, public squares, a famous castle in which Henry IV was born, and a renowned boulevard with a gorgeous view facing the Pyrenees. It is a starting point for tours of the Pyrenees.
Nimes and Arles, old cities where Roman ruins may be seen, are on the route to Marseilles and the Riviera from the Pyrenees or Carcassonne.
the french alps . . . The French Alps extend south from Lake Geneva to the Riviera. Some of the best skiing in Europe is found here and some of the most breath-taking scenery. Mt. Blanc towers over the towns of Mégève, and Chamonix. From here you may visit the Mer de Glace glacier, or go to Le Brevent with its astonishing view of the whole chain. Grenoble is both a ski resort and glove center. Some of the most famous gloves in the world are made there. And some of the best skis, those designed by Emile Allais. The French Alps contain nearly 30,000 guest houses and hotels from the ultra to the very simple.
Famous watering place is Aix-les-Bains in a valley in the heart of the French Alps. The spas here are famous. The Splendide is the top hotel. And here is the famous revolving solarium. Annecy, a little to the north, is equally pleasant.
the Riviera . . . Here is France’s playground. The famous Côte d’Azur. The French Riviera stretches from Marseilles to the Italian border and is dotted with famous spots. Nice, Cannes, Menton, Beaulieu, Cap d’Antibes, Juan-les-Pins, St.-Tropez, Eden Roc and of course, Monte Carlo in the principality of Monaco.
Nice is the largest of the Riviera resorts. It has the Promenade des Anglais, a famous pre-Lenten Carnival, some fine hotels, including the Negresco, the Angleterre, the Royal, the Ruhl, the Plaza. Not so large, but smarter and more frequented by the International set, is Cannes where the Aga Khan lives in the fantastic villa formerly occupied by Maxine Elliott. You’ll see everyone here. There are wonderful hotels, luxurious branches of Paris shops, wonderful beaches and two casinos. The beach boulevard La Croisette has the Carlton, the Martinez the largest hotel on the Riviera, the Majestic and others. There are at least thirty-five hotels in the town. Between Cannes and Nice is the Cap d’Antibes which has the famous Hotel du Cap and the Eden Roc with its pool. It is all very swank and quite expensive, but worth it.
There are, however, less swank and equally beautiful resorts along the Riviera, St.-Tropez, Juan-les-Pins, St.-Raphael, all with wonderful beaches, many with fine hotels and small pensions.
From Nice three roads lead to Monte Carlo and the Italian frontier. They are the Basse (low) Corniche, Moyenne (middle) Corniche, and Grande (high) Corniche. Each one runs on a different level out into the hills. From each you get that famous curving view of the Riviera which you’ve seen all your life.
At Monte Carlo there is the Casino. The most famous in the world. This is an enormous ornate building, marbled and mirrored with crystal chandeliers everywhere you turn. There are
[19]