NEW HORIZONS
ISRAEL (Cont.)
The same arrangement is observed by Israel’s other theatrical organizations. If you stay in Haifa or Jerusalem, you will have at least two theatre performances a week to choose from. At least one performance a week is offered by the smaller centers. And in Tel Aviv you will find several theatrical performances every evening. Productions are in Hebrew.
TIME ... 7 hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . Tipping is not as prevalent as at home. Taxi drivers are not tipped, but barbers and employees in the better hotels are usually given moderate gratuities. At most hotels and restaurants tipping is covered with a 10 percent surcharge on your bills.
TOURIST TAXES ... A refundable purchase or luxury tax is payable on many non-utility goods bought in Israel. This tax will be refunded upon production of receipt for goods by the customs officer at the point of the tourist’s departure.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Regular train, bus, and taxi services link the main towns and cities. Trains between Tel Aviv and Haifa run each way four times daily, while trains between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem run twice daily each way. Train fares are Vz Israel pound (98 cents). Buses run between Haifa and Tel Aviv every half hour from 5:50 a.m. and 9 p.m.; from Haifa to Tiberias hourly between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.; from Haifa to Jerusalem five times daily; from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv every half hour between
5:30 a.m. and 6 p.m.: from Tel Aviv to Beersheba six times a day: from Tel Aviv to Tiberias seven times daily. Bus fares average about one half an Israel pound. Interurban taxi companies with cars seating six passengers operate every half hour from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m. between the main centers. The fare between Haifa and Jerusalem is a bit more than one and one-half Israel pounds; from Haifa to Tel Aviv is just over % Israel pound, as is the fare between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. Taxis also operate within the cities. There are as yet no meters, but fares are controlled by the government arid price lists are conspicuously displayed.
WATER . . . can safely be drunk throughout Jewish cities, towns and well-established villages. In the newer and less well-established centers, bottled drinks are advisable.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Israel handicrafts and artwork are recognized among connoisseurs. Yemenite and Persian filigree work, oriental tapestry and embroidery, metal-chasing, and ceramics are especially recommended. Religious articles and books are also expertly produced in Israel.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Light clothing is suggested for summer days, and fairly warm clothing for the winter months. Jackets, boleros, and sweaters are useful for summer evenings. Do not forget your sunglasses, and bring rain coats, overcoats and woolen garments if you are coming in winter. Rubber overshoes or galoshes are necessary for the rainy months. A robe is a must.
Haifa is one of the main port cities of the Eastern Mediterranean. Modern buildings dominate this street scene in the new section of the city.
The Boardwalk at Tel Aviv along the Mediterranean offers pleasant relaxation. Beaches near here are good.
[65]