NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRIA (Cont.)
Elizabeth, the gorgeous state apartments now used by the President of Austria and the rooms containing the imperial porcelain collection.
The Imperial Spanish Riding Academy, which was founded in the sixteenth century by Prince Eugene of Savoy is entered from the Michaeler rotunda. The Lippizaner horses (produced after long experiments in breeding) are a white three-quarter breed of Spanish stock combined with Arab, whose performances are remarkable. You can see the horses practice every morning in the Fischer von Erlach arena and on Sundays they give a regular performance. It is a unique sight, the riders still wear the cocked hats, white buckskin breeches and the skirted coats of the Napoleonic era. A main entrance leads from the rotunda to the central palace of In Der Burg. Here too you should visit the Schweizerhof which contains an important collection and you should see the imperial chapel.
Another must is a visit to the National Library, one of the largest in the world. This contains a collection of papyri comprising 81,000 items and 1,200,000 printed books and a fabulous collection of manuscripts. The oldest known part of an illustrated Christian Bible is here too, as well as many other interesting early books and manuscripts. There is a music collection containing 19,000 volumes of printed music and 12,000 music manuscripts, a huge reference library and a collection of autographs.
Other places of interest to the tourist in Vienna are the Palace of Justice, the House of Parliament and the University of Vienna. Nearby are the Minoriten Church, the Chancellery and the Votive Church.
The areas immediately outside of Vienna and extending to the border of the U.S. Zone at the Enns bridge near Linz and to the south extending to the border of the British Zone are Russian controlled. No foreigner is allowed to travel in these areas except along the two corridor roads from Vienna to the Enns bridge across the Danube and from Vienna to Graz. The only people who may travel freely within the Russian areas are Austrian nationals with Austrian identification cards and Austrian license plates. However, there is no Russian control within Vienna and tourists need have no fear of intervention.
innsbruck ... The ancient and impressive city of Innsbruck in Tyrol is known as the capital of “The Land of the Mountains.” The best way to see Innsbruck is to walk around the city either in the early morning or early evening. In the blocks between the station and the Maria Theresienstrasse is the so-called new town, a section rich in sights, cafes and hotels. In Tyrol you find the exhilarating Alpine air. If you would get to know Innsbruck, best take a tram to the point where the Maria Theresienstrasse becomes the Herzog Friedrichstrasse, a thoroughfare which bisects the old city, the part which was within the walls. There you will find the city moat used long ago, narrow Gothic houses, pointed arcades and wrought-iron signs. The Herzog Friedrichstrasse leads directly to a little cobbled square, the Stadtplatz, which contains the world-famous Goldenes Dachl. The Dachl, a small Gothic balcony three stories high with a steeply pitched gilded roof, is a rich, gleaming wonder. The entire neighborhood of the Dachl, containing several of those fountains for which Innsbruck is famous, is a must for sightseers. Do not miss the rococo parish church of Wilten, and be sure to make a journey on one of the two cable ascents from Innsbruck. One cable railway takes you to the Patscherkofel, the other to the Hafelekar. The entire Tyrol can be seen from there, outspread like a great relief map. Good hotels include the Maria Theresia, and the Kaiserhof and ancient inns such as the Goldener Adler, the Gol-dene Rose and the Stiftskeller. You should visit some of the night places where you will hear native singing and see native dancing. Tyroleans love life and celebrations and music.
salzburg is the great festival city. Here the world-famous musical event takes place from the last week in July through the month of August. It’s the world’s leading summer musical festival. The city is jammed with musicians and music lovers. The works of the great musical masters, particularly Mozart, are to be heard day and night played by several orchestras and chamber groups. But Salzburg does not offer music alone. It is one of Austria’s most beautiful cities. Minor, but impressive mountains
surround the town. Riding in fiacres (one-horse open carriages) is a popular and charming feature of Salzburg life. You should take in the auto racing which has become one of the leading sports in Salzburg.
Places of interest to the visitor are the famous Salzburg Cathedral which is the finest Italianate edifice in Austria. Attending the “Everyman” performance in front of the cathedral in the late afternoon is one of the most stirring experiences Europe can offer. It is theatre at its most intense. You must see a performance of the Aicher marionettes which have long toured Europe and won great acclaim. One of their best performances is “Faust” but their most outstanding one is “Casperl,” the story of the gay befuddled peasant who drinks and has all sorts of improbable adventures. An interesting place is Mozart’s house which is near the Mozarteum, Europe’s most distinguished summer music school, and oddly enough a large group of the student body are Americans. Since Salzburg is a mecca for music lovers and accommodations are limited, be sure to arrange your reservations well in advance. You can stay at the Oesterreichischer Hof Muenchner Hof in Salzburg or at nearby lake resorts such as Fuschel at the Schloss Hotel, or at Badgastein, 80 minutes away. While in Salzburg be sure to visit the famous Cafe Bazaar where celebrities and tourists and natives mingle.
zell-am-see . . . The best route at present from Salzburg is via Saalfelden. Just south of this town is the famous lake resort of Zell-am-See, an Alpine lake about 2*4 miles long, a mile wide and about 225 feet deep. The town once a rather grand place, is now rather shabby, but there are still good hotels and rather inexpensive. So it is a good place to make your headquarters for trips to the places the High Tauern include. Castle Rosenberg in Zell-am-See on the main square is worth seeing, as is the thousand-year-old church tower. There is an excellent bathing beach, tennis courts and good shops. The main thing is to take a trip by cable railway up the Schmittenhoehe. It takes but fifteen minutes to reach the top of this mountain. Here there is a small chapel and a meteorological station. Zell-am-See is a winter resort too. Besides perfect conditions for skiing (wonderful lifts) there are skating, sledding and other sports. There are excellent accommodations and a good sparkling climate.
badgastein ... 47 miles south of Salzburg is this town with the famous Gastein Springs. Many go to the Hotel Kurhaus for the lure. There are good shops, theatres and cinemas to keep the famous guests happy.
kitzbuehel . . . Situated between Zurich and Vienna on the main railway line is Kitzbuehel, one of the best known Austrian towns to tourists. In winter it is a very outstanding skiing resort, really considered second only to the Arlberg resorts by expert skiers. The town has every kind of a ski slope, a cable railway up the Hahnenkamm, ski lifts, any number of ski runs, including, of course, the famous Hahnenkamm run. There are excellent ski schools, with expert instructors and guides. For skaters there is an ice rink, and first class hockey matches are staged there frequently. Kitzbuehel is the scene of many important international winter sport competitions. There are a great many good hotels. The Grand is luxurious. Inns and pensions abound. One of the best pensions is a castle where the paying guest may have every comfort. Some of the places of interest to see are the Church of St. Andreas and the Frauenkirche. You should take a side trip to the Kitzbuehler Horn and to Fieberbrunn, where there is a health spring and peasant festivals. The shops of Kitzbuehel are extremely interesting. It has been said of Kitzbuehel that despite its yearly influx of nobility and celebrities, the natives have remained unspoiled.
styria, province of which Graz is the capital, lies in the lake district of Austria. Styria, because it is in a remote section of the country, has the least tourist traffic. In Styria the peasants and the visitors wear the Styrian gray and green hunting suits and the Styrian version of the dirndl, most popular in Austria. Alt Aussee is the perfect place to live. Bad Aussee, the larger center is lovely with its white-faced, dark-timbered houses with balconies covered with beautiful flowers. Life here is lived and also ended with a great deal of ceremony. An Aussee funeral is a sight to see, with the glass and ebony, the plumes, the horses with their gleaming silver harnesses. There are well-known hotels here such as the
[38]