NEW HORIZONS
ISRAEL (Cont.)
number, centered in the larger towns and in Upper Galilee, their Monsignor Antonio Kreish. The Greek Orthodox Community, fifteen thousand strong, its people scattered about the towns and villages in the north and south of Israel, has at its head the Greek Patriarch of Jerusalem. Part of the Greek Orthodox group are the Pravoslav Russians, their leader Bishop Vladmir, with institutions in Jerusalem, Jaffa, Haifa, Nazareth, and Tiberias. The most important of the Protestant Churches is the Anglican whose English and Arabic branches follow the Anglican Bishop in Jerusalem. The Evangelic Arab Congregation is composed of one thousand members residing mainly in Galilee. Almost all the Protestant Churches are represented by missions active in the larger towns. The Orthodox Monophysites consist of two thousand persons.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS... (see food and night clubs
AND CABARETS).
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Recommended are the Wizo Shops in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, and Haifa for Oriental and modern gifts. Freund and Rivoli in Tel Aviv is suggested for practical and luxury items. Shops and stores are open in Israel from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday through Thursday inclusive, and from 8 a.m. to sundown on Fridays. Shops and stores are closed on Saturdays and holidays.
SIGHTSEEING IN TEL AVIV . . . Israel’s “city of tomorrow”: expansion is its keynote, building and rebuilding is carried on at a furious pace. Tel Aviv is less a city than the embodiment of all of Israel’s enormous vitality and urge to progress. The sidewalk café is an institution in Tel Aviv. Morning, afternoon, and night the city meets in the cafés to relax, to talk, to meet old friends and make new ones, to read, or to have a drink or cup of coffee. The beaches of Tel Aviv are particularly beautiful; the inhabitants of this city are strong for sand and water sports. The Manufacturers’ Association has its headquarters in Tel Aviv, and maintains there a permanent exhibition of Israel’s industrial products. On the outskirts of Tel Aviv, by the Yarkon River, lie the fascinating remains of an ancient Solomonic fort and Israelite city. Nearby Jaffa, now included in the municipality of Tel Aviv, contains a small mosque where, or so tradition has it, stood the home of Simon the Tanner, the site of St. Peter’s vision. Also in Jaffa one finds Andromeda’s rocks and the tomb of Tabitha.
sightseeing in Haifa ... Haifa is “the Gateway to Israel.” It is Israel’s principal harbor, one of the major ports in the eastern Mediterranean. Tourists in Haifa should definitely visit the waterfront-dock area of this city in the early morning. The bustling activity to be found there at that time is amazing. Haifa is the only place in Israel where the mountains meet the sea. Haifa may be divided into roughly three areas: the town itself, lying at the foot of Mount Carmel; the Har Hacarmel area atop Mount Carmel; and the Hadar Hacarmel, the central area about midway between the sea and the summit of Mount Carmel. The town proper is the mercantile and commercial hub of the city’s life, constantly humming with activity. The Hadar Hacarmel contains parks, gardens, a busy shopping district centered about Herzl Street, the Haifa Technical college, the Nautical School, the Municipal Museum, the Government House, the Law Courts, and the modern Haifa Roofed Market. Do not miss the Bahai Gardens in this area. Haifa is dominated by Mount Carmel, which is venerated because of its association with the Prophet Elijah and with the founding of the Carmelite order, whose principal monastery is on its summit. On the southeast slope of Mount Carmel one finds the “Place of Burning” which commemorates the triumph of Elijah over the priests of Baal. In the center of the Carmelite monastery is a domed church in the form of a Greek cross. A double stairway leads to the choir containing a magnificent altar on which stands a statue of “Our Lady of Carmel,” by the famous Genoese sculptor Caraventa. Below the monastery is the School of Prophets where Elijah is supposed to have taught his Disciples. Mount Carmel is beautiful as well as interesting. Green the year round, it has become a symbol. Its summit commands a magnificent view of Haifa and the entire eastern Mediterranean area. Several of the world’s most fastidious travelers have named Haifa “the Naples of the East.”
sightseeing—HOLY land tour . . . The Holy city of Jeru-
salem may be approached by train or road from both Haifa and Tel Aviv. From Jerusalem one may travel about 3 miles southeast to Ain Karim, legendary birthplace of St. John the Baptist, with churches and sanctuaries dedicated to him. Proceeding from the capital by rail or main road westwards, you reach Lydda, fabled birthplace of St. George, England’s patron saint. Not far away is Ramleh, storied home of St. Joseph of Arima-thea, capital of the country before crusader days, where the pool of Harun A1 Rashid of Arabian Nights’ fame is shown. The southern highway from Ramleh leads to Beersheba, home of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and not far away are the ruins of Philistine Ascalon topped by crusader fortifications. The northern highway from Ramleh leads to Megiddo (Armageddon of the New Testament), near where the road forks. One fork carries the tourist to fabled Nazareth, the home of the Child Jesus and the site of the Church of the Annunciation.The other fork takes you to Mount Tabor, one of the most beautiful hills in Galilee, on which stands the Church of the Transfiguration. Northeast of Nazareth one comes to Kafr Kanna, believed to be the scene of Christ’s first miracle, the changing of water into wine at the marriage ceremony. East of Kafr Kanna lies Tiberias, and below it the Sea of Galilee. The shores of the Sea of Galilee are of enormous interest to the tourist-pilgrim. One finds Tabgha, traditional site of the miracle of the loaves and fishes. In Tabgha, near the Church of the Multiplication of the Loaves, is a hill, called the Mount of Beatitudes, which is considered by some as the true scene of the Sermon on the Mount. North of Tabgha is Capernaum where stand the ruins of the famous synagogue in which some authorities believe Christ taught and healed. As the pilgrim returns to the coast, there is one further place in Galilee he should visit: Naim, southeast of Nazareth, where a chapel marks the site sacred in Christian memory as the place of the Resurrection.
Among the most interesting sights of Galilee are crusader fortifications such as Acre, famed citadel of Richard the Lion-Heart, and Montfort Castle, seat of the Teutonic Knights. Also in Galilee are Safad and Meron, centers of the mystic Jewish Cabbalist movement with mediaeval synagogues and houses steeped in ancient tradition.
If you are fortunate enough to be in Israel during one of the religious festivals, you will hear wonderful choral music, see magnificent ritual dancing. Passover, Purim and Hanukkah are deliverance festivals.
sightseeing in Jerusalem . . . Standing on Mount Zion and looking down upon the old city of Jerusalem is the Church of the Dormition. Just south is a small mosque known in Arabic as En-Nebi Daud, housing a room revered by Christians as the Chamber of the Last Supper. The northeast corner of the Chamber of the Last Supper is believed to contain the tomb of King David, and is held sacred by Jews and Moslems alike. One should also see Mount Herzl, Ramat Rahel (battleground) and the Oriental quarters in this area.
SIGHTSEEING IN ARAB-HELD SECTION OF THE HOLY LAND . . .
The city of Jerusalem is held in part by the Arabs and this area encompasses many of the Christian shrines and points of interest. Arab-held Jerusalem may be reached from either Beirut or Damascus, and tours of this area are available. The sightseeing places to visit include the Old City of Jerusalem, The Holy Sepulcher, The Manger, Bethlehem, Mosque of Omar, The Wailing Wall, Stations of the Cross, Pool of Bethesda, The Field of the Shepherds, Church of the Nativity, The Mountain of Olives, Church of the Ascension, Garden of Gethsemane, Tomb of the Virgin Mary and others.
SPECTATOR SPORTS .. . Several stadia throughout the country offer football and basketball games.
SPORTS . . . Football, basketball, swimming and tennis are the most popular. Haifa is the city of sports and has tennis courts and swimming pools as well as beautiful Khayat Beach. Yachting and boating are popular in Haifa Bay.
THEATRES . . . There are five serious theatrical companies« in Israel: The Ohel, the workers’ theater; the Matate, dedicated to satire; the new Chamber theatre group; the Israel opera; and the internationally famous Habimah. The Habimah has its seat in Tel Aviv, but frequently tours other towns and rural centers.
[64]