FOREWORD
NO one before has ever attempted to publish a book quite like this. It is not a “travel book” in the ordinary sense at all. It does not deal with “impressions”; it deals with facts, carefully gathered by Pan American World Airways from its Stations in all parts of the world.
As you read these facts you will come to some rather startling conclusions:
1.	You will see, for example, why summer is not necessarily the best time for a vacation.
2.	You will see how the airplane has made it possible to take advantage of the fact that the seasons are reversed south of the equator . . . December is June (weatherwise) in Rio de Janeiro. January is July in New Zealand; in Australia; in Santiago, Chile; in Buenos Aires and in South Africa.
3.	You will discover that not knowing a foreign language is no longer any barrier to foreign travel in most parts of the world. English, as you will note in country after country, has actually spread around the entire world. You will note that Bermuda is only 3 hours from New York by Clipper . .. San Juan, Puerto Rico only 6^ hours.
You will see that Mexico, Guatemala and the West Indies have an even better climate in “winter” than in summer. They’re only minutes away from Miami, New Orleans, Houston and Los Angeles—or a few short hours away from any city in the U. S. A. by fast connecting airline to the gateway cities—then on by luxurious Clipper.
You will discover many other unusual things in these pages.
Look at the chart.
Do you see why the Medical Director of a leading oil company makes this statement in an article titled “R VACATION”?—
“For many an urban worker . .. escape to a warm sunny climate
for a few weeks during the dead of winter would be preferable and certainly more conducive to good health than a few weeks at a crowded seashore in unbearable, hot weather ... it is in the late winter and early spring months that upper respiratory infections, vitamin deficiencies, etc., have exacted their greatest toll in employee inefficiency and absenteeism.”
“Everybody knows that,” you say? “Everybody knows you get more colds in winter.”
Well then, why don’t more people do something about the situation?
Doesn’t part of the answer lie right here in our own American history? We elect a President every four years on November 4th. But the Constitution provided that he was not to take office until March 4th of the following year, because that was the estimated time it might take, by horseback and stage, to get to Washington in winter from the farthest of the thirteen colonies, Maine and Georgia.
Yet it was one hundred and forty-eight years later—in 1937— before we amended our Constitution so that an elected President could take office on January 20th.
In that one hundred and forty-eight intervening years,railroads had spread all over the United States; automobiles plus paved mud-free roads had done the same; airlines were crisscrossing the United States daily and Pan Amer-
Fly away to HEALTH!