JAPAN
WEATHER IN TOKYO—Lat. N35°42'—Alt. 30'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
1 Low	30°	31°	36°	47°	54°	63°	69°	72°	66°	54°	43°	33'
Temp. ) High	47°	47°	53°	63°	70°	76°	83°	85°	79°	69°	60°	51’
1 Average	39°	39°	45°	55°	62°	70°	76°	79°	73°	62°	52°	421
Days of Rainfall	7	8	13	14	14	16	15	13	17	14	10	7
LOCATION . . . Japan consists of 4 islands which lie in the North Pacific Ocean off the coast of China.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Japan is welcoming tourists, who have a wonderful opportunity to see the reconstruction of this war-torn country, plus fascinating glimpses of Japanese culture, arts and architecture. Japan has always been a magnet for Americans for its customs and scenery. The people are eager for friendly relationships with the Western world. The trips allowable to tourists are packed with wonderful things to see and do.
POPULATION ... Estimated at 80,500,000, slightly greater than half the population of the United States.
SIZE . . . 147,690 square miles, approximately the size of Montana. Few places in Japan, however, are far removed from the mountains or the sea.
CAPITAL... Tokyo, population 4,177,548—a half million greater than Chicago.
GOVERNMENT ... a constitutional monarchy ruled over by an Emperor and a Cabinet.
There is a parliament of two chambers.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper through-plane service from San Francisco or Los Angeles via Honolulu to Tokyo, about 33 hours (elapsed time). Tokyo is on Pan American’s Round-The-World Route. By ship the journey from the U.S.A. takes 15 days.
TOKYO
ACCOMMODATIONS... There are several “Western style” hotels in Tokyo as well as some of Japanese style. The average tourist however, will prefer to stay at the Western style. There are also state operated hotels which are comfortable and good. In Tokyo there are the Hotel Tokyo, Hotel Teito, Gajoen Kanko Hotel, Hotel Ambassador, Shiba Park Hotel and Yashima Hotel. Rates are about $6.00 to $10.00 per day without meals.
ARTS. . . Japanese art is too vast a subject to discuss in detail. But Japanese paintings and sculptures are known the world over and the Japanese influence on Western painters has been enormous. The Imperial Fine Arts Academy in Tokyo holds an annual exhibit each year in the autumn. Niho Bijutsu-in (Institute of Japanese Art) holds a private exhibition as does the Nika-kai or modern group. There are many art exhibits throughout the year. You should see the Meiji Imperial Picture Gallery in Meiji Park with its interesting display of historical events. The Ueno National Museum in Tokyo houses a wonderful collection of Japanese Art, sculpture, carvings and other treasures of Japanese culture. The carving of Buddhist images was almost the only sculpture done in the land before the nineteenth century. Wonderful examples of this art are to be found at Nara, Nikko, and Kyoto.
BALLET. . . There is a local troupe of Japanese dancers. The Japanese are definitely interested in ballet, and it is possible to attend performances on specific occasions.
BANKS. . . Bank of Japan, National City Bank, Chase National Bank. Others . . . The Bank of America, the Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, the Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and China. All recognized traveler’s checks are accepted by these banks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Festivals are a part of the heart of Japan. Of national importance are: the Doll’s Festival, March 3; the Boy’s Festival, May 5; the Star Festival, July 7; the Shichi-go-san Festival, November 15. Other national holidays include: New Year’s Celebration, January 1 to 3; Bean Throwing Ceremony, February 4; Floral Festival, April 8; the
Feast of the Lanterns, honoring the dead, July 13 to 15.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO. . . All American brands are available. Cigarettes cost approximately 35c a package. Cigars are also obtainable. Regulations allow one carton of cigarettes or 25 cigars.
CLIMATE. . . The climate of Japan is similar to the Middle West in the United States, although it seldom gets either as hot or as cold. However, you’ll need furs and heavy overcoats in winter and light clothes for summer. Japan is well worth a visit any time of the year, but spring and autumn are the best times.
CLUBS. . . Rotary is very active in Japan and it is possible to attend in all the main cities as well as in quite a few smaller towns.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS
There are many different customs in Japan. You must take your shoes off before entering a Japanese-style hotel, private home or temple. The Japanese never use soap in the bath tub. The custom is to lather themselves thoroughly, then rinse themselves, after which they enter the tub or big open bath, and soak themselves in the hot water.
COMMUNICATIONS... Air-mail, radio-telephone and International telegraph service.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit is the yen. The rate of exchange is 360yen to one United States dollar. Foreign currency is not legal tender in the stores or hotels, but can be readily exchanged at the banks for Japanese currency. In Japan today, we have what is known as the convertible yen. Convertible yen is in reality United States dollars or pound sterling which has been converted and which is legal tender in certain stores where articles purchased by foreign currency are for sale. The convertible yen is a name given to foreign exchange and can only be made use of through the medium of checks and an account in one of the recognized banks. These conditions are subject to change so check with your travel agent or Pan American.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED... Passport and several extra passport photographs. Vaccination certificates for
[148]