PAKISTAN
WEATHER IN KARACHI—Lat. N24°55'—Alt. 50'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
1 Low	58°	61°	68°	74°	79°	83°	81°	78°	77°	73°	67°	59‘
Temp. < High	76°	78°	82°	85°	89°	91°	88°	85°	86°	88°	85°	78‘
1 Average	67°	70°	75°	80°	84°	87°	85°	82°	82°	81°	76°	69 ‘
Days of Rainfall	1	1	1	0	0	1	2	2	1	0	0	1
LOCATION . . . Two widely separated units comprise the new nation of Pakistan. East and West Pakistan are separated by approximately 1,000 miles of foreign territory, much the same as Alaska is separated from the Continental United States. West Pakistan adjoins India, Iran, Afghanistan and the Chinese province of Sinkiang, while East Pakistan abuts the Republic of India and Burma.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . While the name Pakistan is a new one, the land is both ancient and colorful. The terrain of East Pakistan is flat, covered with rivers, and very verdant. The landscape of West Pakistan is extremely varied, consisting of snow-capped hills'and green valleys, with abundant food and fruit production. The latitude is' very similar to that of Southern California, and except for the Himalayan region, the terrain is very similar to it. You will find the people of Pakistan friendly and hospitable to visitors.
POPULATION . . . With a population of about 80,000,000 people, Pakistan is the fifth largest country in the world, numerically.
SIZE . . . About 364,218 square miles, which is larger than the combined areas of California, Oregon and Washington.
CAPITAL . . . Karachi, the capital of Pakistan, is a well-planned, modern city, with over a million population. Karachi is a big port and possesses one of the most up-to-date and busiest airports in Asia.
GOVERNMENT ... A Federation of states, called Provinces, with a Parliamentary form of Government. The Cabinet, which is responsible to Parliament, and through Parliament to the people, consists of ten Members, headed by a Prime Minister.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, about 58 hours elapsed time from New York. Karachi is on Pan American’s Round-the-World route. By ship, about 23 days.
KARACHI
ACCOMMODATION •. .Throughout Pakistan will be found a number of good hotels in most of the leading cities such as Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar and Rawalpindi. In Karachi the following hotels are recommended: the Metropole, the Palace and the Beach Luxury. All of these hotels have orchestras and bars. Rates vary from $6.00 to $9.00 per day, American plan.
ARTS ■ • • National Museum, Karachi. The real center of art, however, is perhaps Lahore, where the Museum, Chungh-tai’s Studio, School of Modern Art and several other institutions have valuable collections.
BANKS • • • There are numerous international banks in Karachi. Some of them are: Lloyd’s Bank, Bank of India, Bank of Australasia and the Netherlands Trading Society. Exchange facilities are also provided by Thomas Cook & Sons and the American Express Company.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . • • Idul Fit (July), Pakistan Day (14th August), Idul Azha (Festival of Sacrifice, September), Muharram (martyrdom of Iman Husain, grandson of the Prophet Mohammed, October), Id-i-Milad-un-Nabi (Prophet’s birthday, December), Christmas and Quaid-i-Azam’s birthday (25th December).
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO • .. Pakistani and British-made cigarettes and tobacco are plentiful, but American brands are somewhat more difficult to obtain.
CLIMATE • • • The climate of Pakistan varies greatly from one part to another. East Pakistan has little variation and is usually warm and quite humid. West Pakistan enjoys a more vigorous climate varying from 60° in winter to a maximum of 100° in summer. The humidity is not high. Karachi enjoys a
pleasant climate with an invigorating sea breeze throughout the year.
CLUBS • • • Sind Club, Rotary Club.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS . • • Shoes or sandals should be taken off before entering a mosque. Don’t disapprove if the local inhabitant does not take off his Pakistani cap in social gatherings.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Direct radio-telegram and radio telephone service with nearly the whole world is available.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the Pakistani Rupee worth 30.22 cents U. S. per Rupee. There are 16 Annas in a Rupee and 4 Pice in an Anna.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED BY U. S. CITIZENS ... A passport, properly visaed, is required. A multiple visa entitles the holder to any number of journeys to and from Pakistan within a period of twelve months. Certificates of vaccination against smallpox and inoculation against yellow fever are necessary. Bona fide baggage of a passenger is exempt from duty when it accompanies the passenger. No duty is charged on 100 cigarettes and jewelry up to Rs. 5,000 (about $1500). There is no limitation on cosmetics and such things so long as they are within reasonable limits.
DRUG STORES • • • Chemists, druggists or pharmacists are found in all the shopping and business centers, and in most of the hotels. Although American products are available, visitors requiring any special medicines or particular brands of toilet articles should bring in enough with them.
FAUNA • • • The Zoo Gardens on Garden Road present a picturesque scene.
FLORA • • • The hanging gardens of Clifton Beach are worth