NEW HORIZONS
BERMUDA (Cont.)
WATER . . . Dependent on rainfall for water supply. Water is excellent to drink. Bottled water available.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tweeds, cashmere and Shetland sweaters, British and Scotch woolens, English leather goods, perfume (much lower than in the States), English pipes and tobaccos, English china (Wedgwood, Spode), silver, (great savings here), doeskin gloves and doeskin men’s slacks, West Indian trinkets and gadgets, cedar boxes, calypso sports shirts.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Women: for Spring and Summer— cottons, prints or pastel crepes. Shorts and slacks (Bermuda or knee-length shorts preferable). Don’t go cycling in a halter bra;
the Colony frowns on over exposure, so keep it conservative. Tweeds, sweaters and woolens in Winter and late Fall. Evening gowns of seasonal type. A raincoat is necessary the year round. You will find that a beach robe, two bathing suits, culottes or pedal pushers help a lot.
Men: Bermuda shorts and slacks in warm weather. Ties and coats a “must” in some restaurants. Seersucker or linen jackets with shorts, slacks in Summer, wool suits in Winter. Black or white dinner jackets the year round. White in Summer if you prefer. Raincoat, swimming trunks, T-shirts and a beach robe are essentials.
For a day at the beach, you can take a picnic lunch from your hotel or (as below) lunch at a club or guest house located on a beach.

There are dozens of bright beaches in Bermuda, flanked by flowers and picturesque beach clubs. Bermuda waters are ideal for swimming, fishing and sailing.
English china, silver, leather goods, woolens, and perfume are among the very attractive buys in the waterfront shops in Bermuda.
The lily fields of Bermuda are a spectacular sight as well as the profusion of oleanders, passion flowers, hibiscus, bougainvillaea, poinsettias and birds of paradise.

llliliÎf!
Hfi
. >
Bicycles are the most popular form of transportation. Everyone goes everywhere on them. Prevailing rate is about $5 per week; may be rented by hour or day too.
Carriages may be hired by the hour or day and are fun for sightseeing about the island or for “taxi” service.
[3]