NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRIA (Cont.)
be declared and no more taken out than brought into the country. You need a passport but no visa. Vaccination certificate is necessary for re-entry to the United States. Military permits are no longer required in Austria, but if you are traveling to Vienna other than by air, you will need an Occupational Forces Travel Permit (gray card) to assure your safe conduct through the Russian Zone. The gray card is available from the Allied High Commission Permit Office, c/o Department of State, Washington, D.C. or at Military Permit Offices in most European capitals. Permit must be used within 30 days of issuance and is valid for 30 days. Extension of time limit and permits to leave Vienna through another zone than that of entry are available at U.S. Headquarters in Vienna. However, if you are going to Vienna and returning via air, you do not need the gray card (safe conduct) across the Russian Zone.
DRUG STORES ... In some of the drug stores within the first Bezirk of Vienna, foreign products, including American, are available.
FAUNA • • • The vast forest and rock districts of the provinces overflow with prize game. Chamois shooting is a special feature. Stag, marmot, roebuck, and mountain cock all abound. Hunting is good throughout the country, but the shoots of Styria, Tyrol, Vorarlberg, and the Danube are particularly renowned. All hunting equipment may be rented or brought into the country duty-free. As to fishing, the mountain lakes and streams teem with brook, lake and rainbow trout, char, brook-char, pike, pike-perch, and many other fish.
FLORA • • • The lower meadows of Oberinntal, near the Italian border, are rich in the multi-colored carpets of flowers for which the Alps are famous. Throughout the Alps the forests and flowers are strikingly beautiful.
FOOD • • • Most of the more popular Austrian dishes are part of international cuisine everywhere— Wiener schnitzel, goulash, and the various strudels, to name a few. There are numerous other less well-known specialties worth trying, especially dishes involving noodles. And do not miss the Viennese pastry. Even in the small inns food is served in substantial quantities. A continental breakfast of coffee and rolls is taken upon arising, with a heartier second breakfast at ten in the morning. In Vienna, large towns, and resorts, dinner is at eight o’clock, with a light supper at midnight. Afternoon tea, called “jause,” is served at four p.m. and consists of coffee and pastry, tea and sandwiches.
GAMBLING .. . There are two large race tracks in the vicinity of Vienna.
LANGUAGE • • • German is the official language, but English is taught in the high schools and you will have no trouble getting guide information in English at your hotel or at other places you visit.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . You can have your laundry done quickly and thoroughly, and for little money, by the chambermaid at your hotel. Dry-cleaning is fast and good in Vienna, but not so good in the provinces.
LIQUOR • • • Austria is both a beer- and wine-drinking country. The beer is excellent and the wines are wonderful. Vin ordinaire is good and is cheap. The best red wine is Voeslauer, with Klosterneuburger a close second. The best white wines are Gumpoldskirchner, Grinzinger, Nussdorfer, Riesling, and Velt-liner. Austrian champagne is good. Schnaps, distilled liquors obtainable in great and potent variety, are also good. Whiskey is imported and expensive. Slivovitz, a South-Slav drink distilled from plum juice, is popular and strong. The famous Heurigen-wine of new vintage is served by the wine growers in the back yards of their premises in all the wine growing areas. Cocktails vary in price and quality, but are good at the large international bars.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • Austrian doctors are generally excellent. Ski centers have first aid centers with resident doctors. Inquire at your hotel if you need a doctor. Hospital facilities in the larger cities are nearly at pre-war level.
MOTION PICTURES • • • Motion picture theaters are to be found in the larger cities. There are a good number in Vienna. Many of the films shown are American or English.
MUSIC • • • There is music everywhere in Austria. Besides the famous orchestra and opera in Vienna, there is the world
renowned Salzburg festival. In late summer and fall peasant festivals are numerous, and most sizable villages have dances on Saturday. Vienna has for centuries been considered the music capital of the world. From there burgeoned the works of Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Brahms, Gluck, Haydn, Bruckner, Wolf, Mahler, Lanner, the Strausses, and other great artists; Lehar and von Einem in our time. The Vienna Philharmonic is world renowned. Furtwaengler and Karajan are the two leading conductors now, but there are many other famous ones. The Vienna State Opera is not surpassed anywhere in the world and the Vienna Choir Boys are among the leading performers of religious music in the world.
NIGHT CLUBS • • • Vienna affords everything from swank night clubs with floor shows to fashionable little tanz bars where there is always wonderful music and good wine. The Kahlenberg or Cobenzl in Grinzing are very smart. The Tabarin, Casanova-Bar, Splendide, Moulin Rouge, Kursalon are all good. Among the wine gardens try Franz Hengl, Augustin. The native inns in the smaller towns all have “bauernstube” rooms handsomely decorated with folk art where in the evenings there is dancing, singing and congenial company.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE- • .Vienna I., Kaerntnerring 5. (Tel. B 34520).
RELIGION • • - Austria is predominently Roman Catholic. Cathedrals and churches are numerous and beautiful. Many of the provincial towns have churches and there are many abbeys throughout Austria.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS - - • Vienna abounds in wonderful restaurants, dance-bars and small, smart eating places. You should dine once in one of the deep old cellars in the inner city. Coffee houses are so evident you need no guide. The Rathauskeller is one of Europe’s best restaurants. For Viennese food try Alter Hofkeller, Kerzenstueberl, Bratwurstgloeckerl, Lind, and Stadtkrug.
SHOPS AND STORES - • • Three stores famous for their leather goods and travel accessories are Gerstel-Wuerzl, Nigst and the Alligator, as is the Lanz shop for native costumes. Shooting and fishing equipment may be purchased locally, as can, of course, skiing equipment and apparel.
SIGHTSEEING • • • Perhaps for the first sightseeing trip you make in Vienna it would be best to take a standard sightseeing tour around the city. This would make it possible for you to plan from there on what you want to see most. Because there is so much of interest to see in Vienna it is impossible to cover it all unless you plan to stay for some time. Vienna is divided into 21 districts. The inner town, the first district, is the most important. It is surrounded by the Ringstrasse. Each section of the Ringstrasse has a different name; the one in the very center of the city is the Opern Ring, the others are the Schotten, the Karl Lueger, the Seipel, the Burg, the Kaerntner, the Schubert, the Park, and the Stuben Ring. These take in two-thirds of the Old Vienna and the other third is bounded by the Franz Josef Kai along the Danube Canal. The Opera House, a magnificent structure is located where the Kaerntnerstrasse, the main shopping district, meets the Opern Ring. The building which is now being rebuilt (the interior was completely destroyed during the war) was designed by the famous Austrian architect van der Null, who after realizing that he had designed the Opera House at street level (the only one in the world not raised above street level) committed suicide. From the Opera House take a walk to St. Stephen’s Cathedral which was built in 1147, and partially remodeled from then to 1433, also suffered much damage from bombs. However, the Gothic spire (448 foot) escaped damage. The Cathedral contains many beautiful pulpits, choirs, choir galleries and a great organ of Baroque design. The catacombs connect with subterranean passageways which extend under the entire area around the Stefansplatz. Next on your list should be a visit to the Palace. The Hofburg Palace built in 1275 by Ottocar II, was the winter palace of the Habsburg emperors. It is now open to visitors who want to see the wonderful Habsburg collection. The renowned wrought-iron Michaeler Tor opens into the Michaeler rotunda, off this are the imperial apartments and state suites. The private apartments of Franz Josef, containing the personal furnishings of the Emperor, the suites of Empress
[37]