NEW HORIZONS
ENGLAND AND WALES (Cont.)
the midlands and the lake country . . . Nottingham is the most historic town in this region. See Nottingham Castle. The trip to Jerusalem, the oldest inn in England, built in the dungeons of the Castle, when it was the assembly point for Richard Coeur-de-Leon’s first crusade. Nine miles from Nottingham in Newstead Abbey, the home of Lord Byron. It has been beautifully preserved by the town of Nottingham. The gardens and grounds are gorgeous.
Haddon Hall is one of England’s greatest show places near Derbyshire in the Wye Valley. Owned by the family of the Dukes of Devonshire for many generations, it is truly a museum of fabulous art and other objects closely related to English history. Haddon Hall was originally built as a medieval fortress. Over the generations many lovely changes have taken place and today it is one of the most gracious homes in England. The gardens are among its chief attractions. The fountains play among the most beautiful rose gardens in England and you’ll walk beneath huge, stately trees that have been there for centuries.
The owners live in this mansion and it is open to the public only on certain days, so inquire before you go and don’t be disappointed.
The Lake Country is a hiker’s paradise. Often called “Little Switzerland,” it is beautiful, full of charming little lakes, rolling hills and rugged open country. It is also the haven of great English poets, notably Wordsworth. Ambleside, Windermere (the largest lake is here) Grasmere and Keswick are all quaint little towns with good inns and restaurants. Any one of them would make a good base for seeing the Lake District.
Cambridge and east anglia . . . Cambridge is the second great university town in England. Cromwell, Wordsworth and Darwin all studied here. See Queen’s, Trinity and St. John’s College. Don’t overlook the lovely chapel of St. John and King’s chapel. The gardens are lovely. Punting on the Cam is an experience you won’t want to miss. The Round Church in the town of Cambridge is an interesting relic of Norman architecture.
The East Anglia Country is the territory of English painters. Here in this strangely beautiful, flat moor-like country Constable and Turner produced their lovely canvases. There are many charming towns and villages. Ely is probably the most interesting from the point of view of sights to see, principally for its ancient and beautiful cathedral.
other cities . . . Two of the most interesting towns in all England for any tourist are York, in the north, and Chester, about three hours by train from London. Chester is a live, busy town, York a quiet cathedral town after dark, but for an American sightseer, both have the charm that only great age brings. Both retain Roman remains, both have their ancient walls. Those in Chester are still complete so that the visitor may walk completely around them. York Minster is to many the most glorious in all England, surely the most interesting cathedral and the most beautiful stained glass. Whoever sees the famed “Seven Sisters” can never forget them, or some of the simpler war memorials.
Like York, Chester is an old Roman town, but busy, gayer. You can shop in the medieval Rows, the delightful two-storied arcades, shops full of antique silver, jewelry and furniture, and all the while almost touch and feel the fourteenth century. But in Chester you move against orderly crowds of the smartest, best dressed people you will meet in all Britain. Try taking a train for one of these high spots the first day you can spare from London. Do both if you have time; either city can be used as a base for a two- or three-day tour of the surrounding countryside. (In Chester, the Hotel Grosvenor; York Royal Station or Young's).
England’s southwest, Somerset, Devon, and Cornwall has a gulf stream-warmed climate making it mild even in winter, with beaches, exciting villages, and a cove dotted coast where spring comes early. You might stop at Exeter, in Devon, for a sight of its Cathedral, or at fashionable Torquay. Here you will be surprised by subtropical plants, even some palms. See lush green Plymouth, from whose harbor both Drake and the Pilgrims sailed to make history. And the last, most western and southern end of the island is Cornwall with Lands End. Along its north coast with its quaint little hamlets lies Tintagel, with its memories of King Arthur. And don’t miss the Cornish pasties.
wales ... It is easy to go to Wales from Chester. But you should try to get to Wales which has a hundred old castles, even if you don’t manage Chester. North Wales is the best. The cities of the south are grim, bleak coal mining centers not unlike our own. Go to Llangollen for the annual Eisteddfod which is the festival of Welsh choirs; musicians and dancers from all over the world perform here, too. But it is the magnificent Welsh singing such as you heard in “How Green Was My Valley” which rules the occasion. Llangollen is in Denbighshire where flows the River Dee. Go to Bettws-y-Coed in Caernarvonshire, Colwyn Bay, a charming village of winding lanes and typical cottages. Visit Llandudno a modern resort with good hotels and fine beaches. Try the Imperial, St. George's or Craig side Hydro. Caernarvon Castle is where the first Prince of Wales was installed by his father Edward I. The castle is forbidding and majestic. North of Caenarvon are the resort towns of Llanfairfechan, Penmaenwar and Bangor. All of which have good beaches. The highest mountain in England and Wales, Snowden is in this county which is famous for its steep mountain ranges and its mountain climbing. South of Caernarvon is Montgomeryshire which is in Central Wales where the Wye and the Severn Rivers start their course. There are some charming towns and excellent fishing in the streams of Vyrnwyd and Clywedog.
Westward on the coast is Cardiganshire with some delightful resort towns. Abersystwyth with the Queens Hotel. Here is the University College of Wales. Still going south you come to Pembrokeshire with its many Norman castles. This is the oldest county in South Wales and full of historical interest. The stones at Stonehenge came from here. And who could resist a lighthouse named Scrumbles Head? Cardiff is the chief city in Wales.
northern Ireland ... Belfast, the pleasant and prosperous capital of Northern Ireland, may be reached by either air or ferry from England or Scotland. The city is surrounded by beautiful country which has that soft and green quality which characterizes so much of Northern Ireland. Stay at the Grand Central, the Midland. Make trips along the coast road through the famous Glens of Antrim, with their steep, wooded valleys, waterfalls and swift mountain streams, or take a bus or train to County Down, “where the Mountains of Mourne sweep down to the sea.” Spend a few days in Portrush, County Antrim, a famous seaside resort with long stretches of sandy beach and a championship golf course. Hotels: Northern Counties and Skerry Bhan. Visit the Giant’s Causeway, myriad columns of bright red and yellow volcanic stone at Newcastle. County Fermanagh is one of the great beauty spots of Europe. Upper and Lower Lough Erne, two lakes which divide the county, are studded with islands on which are the ruins of castles, shrines and monasteries. Stay in the island city of Enniskillen, Hotel Imperial. Visit some of the lovely rose gardens of County Armagh. The City of Armagh has been the ecclesiastical center of all of Ireland for more than fifteen centuries. St. Patrick founded his church there.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing goes on all year in England. The flat racing season lasts from March to December when the steeplechasing and hurdle racing begin. The first week in June is Derby Week. People come from miles around to see this great world-famous race, and gypsies camp in the hills around Epsom Downs giving the whole event a carnival air. It is one of the most interesting events in the world and one of the gayest.
A visit to Lord’s Cricket Ground in London is a must. Rugby is mainly a university sport not as popular as soccer. The biggest soccer event in England is the Cup Final, played at Wembley in April. Other major sports events in England are the world championship tennis matches at Wimbledon near London during June and July, the British Amateur and British Open Golf tournaments in May and July respectively, and the Oxford-Cam-bridge boat races on the Thames in March.
SPORTS . . . There is a great variety of things to interest the sportsman in England. There are some of the world’s best golf links and courses. Near London is the famous Sunningdale course. Westward Ho! at Devon, Hoylake near Liverpool and the course at Sandwich, to mention a few, are all excellent. These courses are all open to tourists.
You’ll find fine tennis all over England. The grass courts are
[12]