NEW HORIZONS
PORTUGAL (Cont.)
coimbra . . . Coimbra is Portugal’s university city. The school is one of the oldest in Europe. This beautiful town is built on a series of fanned-out hills like an amphitheatre. The University stands on the site of the former royal palace. The library and the lovely little chapel are well worth seeing. The Church of Santa Cruz is one of the most beautiful in all of Portugal. The tombs of the first two kings of Portugal are here. The gardens of the old monastery are still as they were seven centuries ago. There are excellent hotels and restaurants in Coimbra. The Hotel Astoria is the best, rooms from $4.00 a day with meals. Moderately priced and fairly good hotels are the Avenida, Central, Internacional. Good places to dine include the Cardosa, Nicola, Cafe Santa Cruz. Coimbra is a fascinating mixture of many civilizations that have all left their mark on the city.
oporto . . . Oporto is Portugal’s second largest city and the center of the wine-making industry. Situated about 200 miles north of Lisbon, the drive up along the coast is well worth the cost of hiring a car. Oporto is surrounded by rolling hills of vineyards. The buildings of the town are mainly granite. Two graceful bridges pass over the river that runs through the city. The things to do and see in Oporto include a visit to the Roman, Gothic and Baroque Cathedral, with an exquisite silver altar; to the little Roman Chapel of Cedofeita; to the Gothic S. Francisco Church and to the Soares dos Reis Museum in the ancient royal palace of Carrancas, where you can admire a magnificent collection of masterpieces dating from the Middle Ages till the present day. In the Palacio de Cristal gardens, one of the most beautiful Portuguese parks, you can enjoy a beautiful panorama of the Douro River. The Praqa da Ribeira is a typical native market in the center of Oporto’s oldest quarter. There are many fine goldsmith shops in Oporto. The Grande Hotel do Imperio is the most lavish, rates begin at $3.50. Other comfortable ones and moderately priced are the Grande Hotel do Porto, Peninsular, Batalha. The Escondidinho, Belo Horizonte, Caravela, Le Chiencjui Fume, Marisqueira, Gambrinus are among the better restaurants.
fatima . . . Portugal’s outstanding record of devotion—is situated 105 miles northeast of Lisbon (169 Km.). A beautiful church has been erected to the Holy Mary on the spot of the apparitions, and hundreds of thousands of pilgrims worship there every year. Many cures have been claimed by pilgrims to the shrine. The shrine of Fatima has been recognized and dedicated by the present Pope, and is second in attendance only to Lourdes and Lisieux. Aside from two big pilgrimages—13th of May and 13th of October—Fatima is observed on the 13th of each month.
Madeira . . . Called the Pearl of the Atlantic, the beautiful island of Madeira is situated 625 miles southwest of Lisbon. The climate is divine. It is seldom hotter than 75 degrees and never gets very cold. The scenic beauty of the island ranks with the world’s best. Funchal, the port town, is a gay city with good night clubs, hotels and gambling casinos. The beautiful beaches provide all water sports and there is good mountain climbing on the island. Madeira wine and embroideries are the chief industries. The dazzling New Year’s celebrations have drawn tourists here for many years. Madeira’s landscape is one of unsurpassed beauty. The gay flowers and trees and sandy beaches are heavenly. The hotels in Funchal include the ultra chic Reid's Palace Hotel, the Savoy and the Atlantic. Good eating can be done at the Ritz, the Standard and the Golden Gate.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... No one going to Portugal should miss seeing at least one bullfight. The bull isn’t killed and the fight is not as gory as the Spanish version. The Amateur Fights held in Summer in Lisbon (Campo Pequeno) are full of jest and color. Soccer and roller skating hockey are national sports in Portugal. The most important soccer games are played in the beautiful National Stadium near Lisbon from the fall until late in spring, and the roller skating hockey matches are always keenly played and followed by an enthusiastic public. The Portuguese are world champions in this kind of hockey.
SPORTS ... The deep-sea fishing enthusiast will find exciting big game fishing in Portuguese waters. Though there are all kinds of fish, the biggest are the tuna. Boats and equipment are for hire at reasonable prices. Golfing is mainly a tourist sport. There are good courses in resort towns. Tennis courts are also available. Horses may be hired in many large towns. Mountain climbing and skiing are both new in Portugal, but rapidly growing in popularity.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The two big and important stores in Lisbon are “Grandela” and “Chiado.” All best Lisbon shops are situated along the Rua do Ouro, Rua Augusta and Rua da Prata. Shops open every day, excepting Sunday, at 9 a.m. Close at 12, reopen at 1 p.m. and close definitely at 7 p.m.
THEATRES... Lisbon’s most important theatre is the Teatro Nacional de S. Carlos, intended for opera, ballet, symphony music. Other good theatres which present musicals and plays in Portuguese are the Teatro Nacional D. Maria II, Teatro Avenida, Maria Vitoria and Variedades.
TIME...Five hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard time. This is Greenwich Mean Time.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis, trolley cars and splendid buses are available in Lisbon. Good trains to principal cities, and a few excellent highways. Cars are available for long trips at reasonable rates.
TIPPING ... Ten per cent service charge is added to hotel and restaurant bills, but extra five per cent tip is expected. Tip cab drivers twenty per cent because fares are very low.
TOURIST TAXES ... If you are traveling by water, entry tax 15 escudos, exit tax, 8 per cent of passage. If you are traveling by air, no entry or exit tax, except for air passage purchased in Portugal.
WATER . . . Water is safe to drink everywhere in Portugal.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Shopping in Lisbon, your best buys are cork products. Native craftsmen do amazing things with this material. Also exceptionally fine, gold and silver jewelry, made in delicate filigree patterns, and flat silver can be found. Interesting native ceramics are available. Rope-soled sports shoes.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Lightweight street cottons are your best bet, from June to September. Warm clothing is needed for the winter months, especially if you are going to mountain areas. Generally, informal sport clothes and more formal street length wear for evening will do. Evening clothes are worn only at the plushiest resort hotels and casinos. Like Spain, the typical costume for the women of fashion is the little black dress. If you wear sports clothes in the city, keep them conservative. Men need linen or tropical worsted suits, a light topcoat, dinner clothes, slacks and sports jackets.
Called the Tamariz, the beach and balconied restaurant here are at Estoril, one of the finest tourist districts in Portugal.
Fifteen miles west of Lisbon is the rocky hill of Pena, topped by a Germanic castle built in 1840 for Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
[53]