NEW HORIZONS
JAPAN (Cont.)
typhoid, small pox. It is recommended that tourists take extra precautions and have other inoculations such as cholera, etc. One quart of liquor may be brought in. Foreign currency must be declared. You must hold ticket for travel out of Japan. Military Permit also required for visits of more than three days. Regulations change frequently so check with Pan American.
DRUG STORES . . . There are naturally numerous drug stores dotted throughout Japan in which various types of medicines can be purchased. There is, however, aside from many Japanese drug stores, a fully stocked American-style drug store in Tokyo, from which various drugs and medicines of the well-known American brands can be purchased.
FAUNA . . . Boar, deer, pheasants, quail, snipe, wild geese.
FLORA. . . Cherry and plum blossoms, tea, persimmons, loquat, figs and thousands of flowers including the lotus, wisteria, azalea, camellia, chrysanthemum (which forms the crest for the Imperial House). Japan is the land of flowers, and flower arrangement is taught to all its young girls. In Japan it is a high art called “ikebana.” Every young girl and many young men can arrange flowers artistically.
FOOD . . . Rice as everyone knows is the staple food. But daintiness is the characteristic of a truly Japanese meal. Japanese cooks take great pride in having the table and the food look appetizing and attractive. Although it is possible to get Western food in all the cities, the main native dishes to try are sukiyaki, which is a sort of beef stew cooked at the table; tempura, which is fresh prawns deep-fried; and chawanmushi which is chicken, pork and beef steamed with egg custard in a bowl. Fresh raw fish, broiled mushrooms, dried seaweed, bean curd are other native foods which are worth trying. Green tea is almost the national drink. Kabayaki, or broiled eels are considered a great delicacy.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing (under government control) from March to July and August to December. Tokyo’s race track is the Fuchu race course in the suburbs. The Yodo race course at Kyoto is the next largest in the country. The Ranshim near Osaka and the Kyoto Club at Yodo are popular, too.
LANGUAGE . . . Generally speaking, tourists will find that they will have no language difficulty whatsoever in traveling throughout Japan.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES...Good. Readily available and of good quality. Service is fast and where laundry is concerned, it is possible to get over-night service and dry cleaning in about two days.
LIQUOR . .. Sake, a rice wine is the national drink. Japanese beer is generally recognized to be as good as any other beer produced. Other spirits are readily obtainable at all the leading hotels.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are several hospitals in Tokyo as well as American and British doctors who are fully qualified and fully equipped to receive patients.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are motion picture theatres which show American and foreign films.
MUSIC . . . Music is daily taking a place in the lives of the Japanese. Previously their interests were centered around Japanese music, but the modern Japanese citizen is definitely very much interested in all types of “Western” music.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . There are cafes and bars but no night clubs as we know them. Most of the large hotels have dance floors and orchestras. And there are dance halls with Japanese taxi dancers. Ochaya or tea houses cater to hundreds of guests and the geisha, or professional entertainer, dances for the guests in what really amounts to a ritual dance. You must forget everything you think you know about the geisha.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE. . . 150 Marunouchi Bldg. (Tel. 20-1021).
RELIGION . . . There are about twenty-four Christian sects in Japan. There are Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist, Episcopal and Congregational churches. There are three major religions in the country: Buddhism, Shintoism and Christianity.
RESTAURANTS ... All the hotels have restaurants which serve international food. But you should try some of the typically Japanese places which serve wonderful native food.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Japan is a shopper’s paradise.
Ginza Street in Tokyo is the main shopping center and principal stores are: Mikimoto Pearl Store; Mistukoshi department store; Matsuzakaya Department store; Shirokiya Department Store and Takashimaya department store. There are, of course, many small shops. These are the largest.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Everything is so different, so novel that just going out into the streets of Tokyo is a sightseeing tour in itself. You will want to see the Imperial Palace even though the inner enclosure is not open to the public. Walk or drive through Hibiya Park opposite the Imperial Hotel where the azaleas bloom in May and the chrysanthemums in November. In Shiba Park is the famous Zojo-ji Temple. The Palace Gardens, just a short distance from the temple, are quite lovely. Ueno Park, noted for its cherry blossoms, contains the National Museum, the Zoological Gardens, the Art Gallery, the Imperial Library and a monument to General Grant of all people. You will want to go shopping on Ginza Street, the main shopping thoroughfare. Tokyo is a blend of Japanese classicism and modernism, and you will find it interesting. There are packaged tours which cover the parts of Japan which are open to tourists. Starting at Tokyo you drive to Hakone National Park and Atami Hot Springs Resort. You pass through Kamakura which is the site of the shrine of the Great Buddha or Daibutsu. You may climb inside the Buddha to shoulder level. A short distance from the Buddha is Hachiman Shrine, one of the oldest temples in Japan, located in a grove of cherry trees. If you are touring you will proceed to Hakone Mountains to the Hakone Hotel on the shores of Lake Hakone, from there on to Atami over the Ten Province Pass from which you will get a wonderful view of Mt. Fujiyama. The Atami Kanko Hotel is good here. The third day of the tour takes you by train to Kyoto, known as the “classic” city of Japan. Its bazaars and shops are famous. The Rakuyo Hotel has air-conditioning in every room so you will be comfortable. You will visit the grounds of the old Imperial Palace and the Higashi-Hongan-ji, one of the most elaborate Buddhist Temples in the country. Heian Shrine in Okazaki Park is a famous Shinto shrine set in the midst of formal gardens. Twice a year this is the site of festivals, and endless processions of Shintoists, dressed in costumes depicting various periods in history, pay homage there. On the fifth day, you leave Kyoto for Nara which is considered the cradle of Japanese Art and culture. Here is the Shoso-in whose treasures are displayed annually in Tokyo. Here, too, are wonderful examples of early Japanese architecture. You will see the Deer Park where tame deer roam at will. You will see the Todaiji Temple which contains the largest image of Buddha in the world, and you will wander down the vermilion corridors of the Kasuga Shrine. The Nara Hotel is the place here.
From Nara, you go by electric train to Osaka, where Shin-saibashi, the city’s shopping and amusement center, with its colorful bazaars, will enchant you. Osaka Castle, the walls of which are formed of gigantic pieces of granite, is amazing. The gardens surrounding the castle are filled with shrubs and trees and tiny ponds spanned by equally tiny bridges. The Shitennoji Temple and the Temmangu Shrine are here. It is in Osaka that you find the theatre devoted entirely to puppet shows, the Bunrakuza. This tour takes about five days. But upon arrangement, you may stay longer at a place you particularly like.
Another place of interest to go from Tokyo is Nikko, about 90 miles north of the capital. This is a mountain resort famous for its scenery and its 300-year-old Toshogu Shrine. The entire area is a National Park and just a few miles from Nikko at Lake Chuzenji are the Kegon Waterfalls. Here is the best trout fishing in Japan. There is good bathing and swimming, too. You will see the red lacquered, crescent-shaped sacred bridge which crosses the Daiya River. Here there is a five-storied Pagoda considered to be the finest in Japan. The carvings of the world famous “Three Monkeys” are on the Sacred Stable beyond the Niomon Gate here. See also the Yomeimon Gate. The Nikko-Kanaya Hotel has a swimming pool and surprisingly enough, a skating rink.
You may go to Kobe, on the Inland Sea, 20 miles west of Osaka, a city which is backed by the Rokko Mountain Range. This city was in ruins after the war but is rapidly being rebuilt.
[149]