LOCATION . . . This huge country covering half of South America, occupies the east-central section of the continent and includes several climatic regions—the tropical Amazon basin near the equator, the sub-tropical central section and the temperate climate of the mountainous regions facing the southern coast.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Rio de Janeiro is a city of beauty, of white buildings, mosaic walks, blue blue water, purple mountains. It is a city of gayety, a carnival city, ready to amuse you, entrance you. Its Copacabana Beach and its hotels are world famous. Its environs are magnificent. Its climate is marvelous. You can have fun in Rio. The food is wonderful, the hotels superb, the scenery fabulous.
POPULATION... Estimated approximately 50,000,000, roughly a third of the United States population.
SIZE ... 3,286,170 square miles, slightly larger than the United States.
CAPITAL . . . Rio de Janeiro. The metropolitan area population of Rio is approximately 2,500,000, bigger than Philadelphia proper.
GOVERNMENT ... A federation of 21 States and 4 Territories with a President, a Federal Senate and a Chamber of Deputies.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American “Strato” Clipper 20% hours from New York. By ship from New York, about 11 days. Panair do Brasil airline provides local air service within the country.
RIO DE JANEIRO
ACCOMMODATIONS .. .The second city in South America has a surprisingly short roster of hotels, so be sure to confirm your reservations. Copacabana Palace is the best known hotel in Rio. Located at Copacabana Beach it has a magnificent view of the sea. Rooms and small flats are available. There is a swimming pool, two night clubs, and the clerks and porters speak English. Rates from $9.00 up. The Vogue just off the beach is the most expensive hotel in Rio. Service is excellent. There is a night club and superb food. The Gloria is older and closer to town. It is the best of the older hotels. There is a night club and bar. The Regente is new with good accommodations. The Serrador is the best of the commercial hotels in the city itself. The Miramar, the Excelsior, the Ouro Verde and the Olinda are very new and very good. Good, modern and expensive.
ARTS . . • The National Museum at Quinta da Boa Vista Park is one of the oldest in Brazil and was once the residence of Dom Pedro I and Dom Pedro II. Interesting collections of mineralogy and ethnography. Natural Historic Museum, Praca Marechal Ancora. Superb collection of historical objects, silver, porcelain, paintings, etc. National Museum of Fine Arts, Av. Rio Branco, houses collections of old paintings and sculpture and also has a gallery for contemporary artists. The Museum of Modern Art, Boa Vista Building. Av. President Vargas, exhibits of modern painting and sculpture. Museum of Historical and Geographical Institute, Praqa Mahatma Gandhi, has interesting collection from the period of the monarchy.
BALLET . . . Foreign and local ballet companies appear at the Teatro Municipal during the season.
BANKS . . . National City Bank of New York, Av. Rio Branco 85; First National Bank of Boston, Av. Rio Branco 18; Royal Bank of Canada; American Express Co., Rio Branco 120.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year s Day. Pre-Lenten Carnival; International Labor Day, May 1; St. John’s Day, June 24th; St. Anthony’s Day and St. Peter’s Day the same month make June a perpetual holiday; Independence Day,
September 7th; All Saints and All Souls Days, November 1 and 2; Republic Day, November 15th; Christmas.
The Carnival in Rio is one of the gayest in the world. All business stops for the three days. There are costume balls, galas at clubs and private homes, dancing in the streets, parades, lavish costumes, fireworks, music, pretty girls and everything it takes to make a carnival and then some. It is always held just before Lent.
CIGARETTES, PIPES, TOBACCO . . . Brazilian cigars are among the world’s finest mild cigars. Suerdick Co. makes the finest. American cigarettes are expensive.
CLIMATE • • • It’s always summer in Rio. During the winter season, June to September, the nights are quite cool and there is an occasional cool day. But temperatures below 50 degrees are almost unknown. It’s often very hot in Rio’s summer.
CLUBS ... A. B. I. Brazilian Press Association (no cards needed. Separate section for non-member guests); Halfway House, at top of Standard Oil Building, and International Club are American business men’s luncheon clubs; American Chamber of Commerce and University Club (for graduates and students of North American Universities), Av. Graqa Aranha 182; American Society (for information on American colony) and American Legion, Av. Graqa Aranha; Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A.; Rotary Club, Av. Nilo Peqanha. For golf and yacht clubs see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . .
Beware of the traffic. If you are run over it’s you who are sued, and the South Americans drive with more abandon than we do. The dinner hour is from 8 to 10 p.m. Cocktails are at 7. Local businessmen stop between appointments for a cafésinho (demi-tasse) at one of the innumerable sidewalk cafés.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Long distance telephone: Radio Internacional-Radional; Telegramsand Radiogramsand Cables; All America Cables, Av. Rio Branco; Radio Internacional, Av. Almirante Barroso; Radiobras, Av. Rio Branco (for long distance dial Ol); Western Telegraph Co., Rua Candelaria; Air Mail to North America.
[113]