SCOTLAND
1
o
WEATHER IN GLASGOW—Lat. N55°50'—44 miles E of Edinburgh—Alt. 195'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	35°	35°	36°	39°	43°	48°	51°	51°	48°	42°	38°	35'
Temp. < High	42°	43°	45°	51°	57°	63°	65°	63°	59°	52°	46°	43'
/ Average	39°	39°	41°	45°	50°	56°	58°	57°	54°	47°	42°	39'
Days of Rainfall	20	17	18	15	16	15	18	18	17	19	18	21
LOCATION . . . Scotland occupies the northern part of the Island of Great Britain. Edinburgh is 327 miles from London by air.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The Bonnie Braes of Scotland are well worth a visit. Edinburgh, although conservative, is a lovely city and of course the Scottish Lochs and Highlands are famous the world over. Fishermen and hunters will find Scotland just right for them. The lochs and streams abound in trout and salmon, and the shooting is internationally famous. The Scots themselves, though reserved, are wonderfully friendly. No trip to the British Isles is complete without a tour of this rugged independent little country which has magnificent scenery and many interesting places to visit.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 5,095,969, roughly the combined population of Philadelphia, Los Angeles and Baltimore.
SIZE . . . 30,405 square miles, the size of South Carolina.
CAPITAL . . . While London is the capital of Great Britain, Edinburgh is the recognized and constituted capital of Scotland.
GOVERNMENT ... A part of the United Kingdom, of course.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, New York direct to Glasgow (Prestwick Airport) 13% hours. By ship, about 5 days.
EDINBURGH
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are numerous hotels, private hotels and boarding places in Edinburgh. But Americans will probably prefer the Caledonian, the George and the North British. Rates are reasonable. Don’t expect lavishness, you won’t find it. But you will be comfortable. Top rates single about $5 per day at official exchange.
ARTS . . . Everyone interested in Scottish history will find plenty to fascinate them. Visit the National Museum of Antiquities of Scotland on Queen Street, the Scottish Naval and Military Museum at Edinburgh Castle which was turned into a National Repository in 1933. Here you will find flags, relics, pro-traitas Medals and other objects devoted to each Scottish Regiment. Visit the Scottish National Gallery, the Royal Scottish Academy both of which contain fine examples of past and contemporary Scottish Art. These galleries are on the “Mound.” The Royal Scottish Museum is on Chamber Street.
Glasgow is very proud of its Art Galleries, situated in the Kelvingrove Park, in the shadow of Glasgow University. This building which is quite a piece of art in itself, houses many treasures of art, and many interesting days can be spent there by true lovers of art.
BALLET . . . There are ballet performances at various times throughout the year.
BANKS . . . Clydesdale and North of Scotland Bank Ltd., Commercial Bank of Scotland and Royal Bank of Scotland See
CURRENCY
CALENDAR OF SCOTTISH HOLIDAYS ... New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, St. Andrew’s Day (November 30), Christmas, Boxing Day (December 26).
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes are scarce and expensive.
CLIMATE . . . It’s never very warm in Edinburgh. Spring, summer and autumn are lovely. Glasgow has a very similar climate. Northern Scotland in the Highlands is apt to be cool like
Maine. Occasionally there are heavy fogs and mists. The Lowlands have a pleasant summer climate.
CLUBS ... The overseas League offers club facilities in Edinburgh and Glasgow. There are, of course, many private clubs to which membership privileges are granted through guest cards. For golf clubs see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Scotland is a conservative place and women are not particularly welcome in its bars. Best do your drinking in hotel lounges and cocktail bars. Asking what’s worn under kilts is not funny any more. If you must know, the Scotsman wears “trews.” Scotch jokes are out, too.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Cable and trans-Atlantic telephone facilities, excellent. Air-mail rate is 15 cents per half-ounce.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Passport but no visa. You may not bring in more than ten pounds, British currency. Four hundred cigarettes or 50 cigars or one pound of tobacco duty-free. One bottle of liquor or one bottle of wine unopened. Two if opened. Reasonable quantity of unexposed film under 35 min. Everything must be declared.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the pound, worth $2.80. American Express and Cooks on Princes Street cash travelers’ checks.
DRUG STORES ... or chemists’ shops, as they are called, carry pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and toilet preparations.
FLORA . . . The Botanical gardens situated at Inverleith, Edinburgh, offer much to those interested in plants of other countries. Thd Princes St. Gardens, are of course world famous for their floral clock and are a must visit by all tourists.
Glasgow also has a most beautiful botanical garden, situated in the West End, in Great Western Road. The hot houses contain the most beautiful blooms and flora of all countries.
FOOD . . . Haggis, a well known Scottish dish, is a pudding of liver, onion, spices and oatmeal boiled in the lining of a sheep’s
[14]