NEW HORIZONS
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Cont.)
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Edificio Copello, El Con-de (Tel. 2515).
RELIGION . . . The country is Roman Catholic, but there are two Protestant churches and one synagogue.
RESTAURANTS . . . The principal restaurants are in the hotels. Others are quite simple and are more like cafes than restaurants. However, there are one or two good ones run by Chinese. The Hotel Czechoslovakia run by a refugee couple has a pleasant veranda restaurant serving good international food.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The Mercado Modelo or Model Market is just what its name says it is. It has tiled floors, spotless stalls, refrigerated bins for everything. It is unlike any Latin American market anywhere and is the pride of President Trujillo. Most of the smart shops are on the Calle Conde. Here is where you find the tortoise shell, embroideries, woven baskets and all other things made in the Republic.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Ciudad Trujillo itself is an unusual sight in Latin America. The first thing you notice is the cleanliness, the spotlessness of the city. Everything looks shiny new. This is due to the fact that the city has been almost completely rebuilt since the hurricane of 1930 which practically destroyed it, and partly because the government of Trujillo has concentrated on civic improvements. New highways, hotels, hospitals, markets and other buildings everywhere you turn. This is the oldest city in the New World, the spot where Columbus landed and where he lies buried. Don’t miss seeing the Cathedral which contains his crypt; the public is permitted to see the casket. The Cathedral is the Basilica of Santa Maria la Menor. The oldest church in the city is San Nicolas de Bari. The Basilica has some wonderful carvings, a treasure room and the Columbus Cross. In the heart of the original city of Santo Domingo are the ruins of Alcazar de Colon, built by Don Diego, Columbus’ son. The Tower of Homage, the oldest stone fortress in the Americas, is now a prison which may be seen only from the outside. Also in the capital is the University of St. Thomas Aquinas, the oldest university in this hemisphere. Remnants of the chain of walls and forts built around Santo Domingo still remain. There are many lovely old churches in the city, many of them built when the Island was known as Hispaniola in the fifteenth century. It is well worth while just to prowl around the old city and find things for yourself. The new National Capitol cannot be missed. It is built of pink stone and stands in the western part of the city. Most of the government buildings are modern and functional, not as picturesque as those in other countries but certainly a tribute to efficiency which is the mark of Ciudad Trujillo.
Don’t miss Ramfis Park, a beautiful playground for children, which is on the shores of the Caribbean. This is an ideal spot for children and a wonderful thing to see. Columbus Lighthouse is being built as a shrine and memorial. It will be the largest in the world.
san cristobal is about eighteen miles from the capital. It is reached by the Sanchez Highway along which are the San Gero-nimo Fort and the Santo Domingo Country Club. The city is the birthplace of President Trujillo, and gets most of its fame from
that. Here is La Toma, the President’s plantation. There are two wonderful bathing pools here. One for the President and his guests and the other for the public. The Hotel San Cristobal is luxurious and another in the government owned chain. Rates are about $11 double.
boca chica .. . Following the seacoast road you reach Boca Chica, a lovely beach resort about an hour’s drive from the capital. A new luxury hotel is being built here and it will have all the frills found at Jaragua.
The interior of the Dominican Republic is just beginning to be exploited as a tourists’ paradise. Roads are good and the coffee and sugar plantations, the rice paddies and the tobacco farms are interesting to see. At Jarabacoa is Jimenoa Falls, one of the sights of the republic. Here is the Hotel Montana, high in the Cordillera Central. Rooms facing the valley have superlative views. Rates are from $12 to $20 double. There are special offseason rates and deductions for stays of a week or longer. There is a casino here, a dance floor, a children’s playground and wonderful rising. The Hotel Maguana at San Juan is in the center of the ancient Carib Indian civilization. Rates at the Maguana start at $5 a day. This is off the beaten track and if that’s what you are looking for, here it is. The hill resorts are quite cool.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing at the “Pearl of Antilles” track. There is baseball and the inevitable cockfighting.
SPORTS . . . The Hotel Jaragua has a salt-water swimming pool. There are tennis courts there and in other spots, too. You may play golf at the Santo Domingo Country Club. Cards are arranged by your hotel. There are pleasant beaches all over the Republic where there are beach clubs at which you may swim. There are gambling Casinos at one or two of these spots. Swimming is fine at Boca Chica about an hour’s drive from the capital. Tarpon and other deep-sea fishing is good and there is a hunting season which extends from February to November. Sailing is fine and there are boats for hire. You may ride, too, there are horses available.
THEATRES . . . Cinemas only.
TIME . . . The Time here is the same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING.. . . The usual ten to fifteen percent.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Entry card which costs $1.
TRANSPORTATION. . . There are cars for hire with or without chauffeurs. The highways are excellent. There are taxis.
WATER . . . With the emphasis on Public Health in this country, it is sure to be drinkable. The hotels will serve bottled water on request.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tortoise shell boxes and accessories, embroideries, woven baskets.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Ciudad Trujillo and the other coastal cities are warm and you will require summer clothes. Take beach clothes, and if you are staying at the Jaragua you’ll need dinner clothes, too. The mountain resorts of Constanza and Jarabacoa are much cooler so take topcoats and a warm dress or two. Men will need linen or cotton suits, medium weight jackets and slacks for the hills, beach clothes and summer dinner clothes.
After a morning sightseeing around beautiful Ciudad Trujillo, the pool of a fashionable hotel is a popular place with sun-loving guests.
[85]