NEW HORIZONS
ECUADOR (Cont.)
RELIGION. . . Ecuador is a Catholic country and there are fifty-six churches in Quito representing most denominations.
RESTAURANTS. . . The Cordillera and Colon hotels have excellent food. Newest restaurant is lie de France, with French cuisine. Continental menu, well served, offered at Normandy, located in the center of town. La Duquesa specializes in Austrian and German dishes, but also does a good job on native fare.
SHOPS AND STORES...The markets are the thing in Quito.
SIGHTSEEING. . . There is a lot to see in the capital itself, Quito is filled with excellent examples of Colonial art. There are some fifty-six churches any one of which is rewarding to the tourist. The Church of San Francisco is famous for its art treasures and for its cloisters where women may not enter. La Compania, the Church of the Jesuits was built by Mohammedan workmen. All the churches have magnificent displays of gold, silver and jewels, exquisitely carved altars and vaulted ceilings brilliant with gold leaf. La Merced must be seen. Quito itself is a city of steep streets, white houses and red tiled roofs. Climb Panecillo for a breath-taking view of the city. A short trip by car to the Equatorial monument at San Antonio takes about three hours by car. In the Chillos Valley, about one hour away from Quito by car, are the thermal swimming pools of Alangasi and Tingo. The Indian Fair at Saquisili is an interesting sight and the trip takes you by the snow-capped volcano of Cotopaxi which is the highest active volcano in the world. A two-day trip by auto-carril to Otavalo for the Indian market which is one of the largest in Ecuador is fun. The Otavalo Indians weave a wonderful woolen cloth that is not unlike Scotch tweed. Ambato, known as the garden city of Ecuador, is in the interior on the way to Banos where the jungle starts. Ambato is something of a summer resort; the climate is temperate and its homes are beautiful. If you can get to Riobamba for market day, it’s worth doing. The Colorado Indians there paint their bodies red.
Guayaquil . . . The rail journey from Quito to this city descends from the Andes into the heart of the jungle. Guayaquil lies about sixty miles from the ocean on the Rio Guayas and has a pleasant tropical climate. Hyacinths float on the river and the river teems with water craft. The Hotel Metropolitano is tops; the rooms are comfortable, the food good. There is a bar and unique ice water machines on each floor. Other hotels are the Majestic
and Crillon. There are several good restaurants, including Fortich, Salon Rosado, and the Union Club which has a dining balcony over the river. There is a yacht club, a golf club and a really remarkable tennis club. Cards are needed for all of these. Playas is the beach resort of the country, two hours away from Guayaquil. Here the Hotel Humboldt is new and luxurious. You may swim in the sea or in a pool. There is good deep-sea fishing in the Humboldt current for which the hotel is named. Everything is modern and the food is excellent. Rates range from $12.50 to $25.00 double, American plan.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... Cockfighting is popular throughout the country. Polo matches are played at Quito, Riobamba and Guayaquil.
SPORTS. . . There are good golf courses at the Country Club where there is marvelous scenery and good food. You may play tennis at the Tennis Club. (Cards required.) There are several good swimming pools in and around Quito. It is not advisable to swim in the streams. Hunting for wild game is good in the country. Arrangements may be made through local tourist bureaus. Alligator hunting is popular along the rivers of Guayaquil. Fishing is varied and good. There is big game fishing on the coast at Guayaquil, and Manta. See sightseeing.
THEATRES. . . Principal theater is Sucre.
TIME. . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING... Tip about 10 per cent.
WATER... Bottled water is advised.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Panama hats are the best buy in Ecuador. They are woven here, and not as you might think, in Panama. Montecristi Panamas famous the world over may be bought for about $12. Beautiful antique silver Indian oranments and costumes, hand carved wooden chests, handbags and cigarette cases woven of palm fibre. Native rugs and textiles woven by Indians, beautiful and colorful. Native embroideries and pottery, all kinds of articles made out of Guayacan wood.
WHAT TO WEAR... Quito is cool, with temperatures ranging from 50 to 60 degrees. Light woolen suits and dresses with fur jacket or topcoat. Men need light weight woolen suits and topcoat. For the coast of Ecuador at Guayaquil and Playas you’ll need tropical sports clothes and swimming attire.
An important bit of Ecuadorian history, the meeting of San Martin and Bolivar, is commemorated with this monument at Guayaquil, 75 minutes by air from Quito.
The monument shown at right designates the location of the equator which crosses Ecuador near its capital, Quito.
Tourists always admire the beautiful church and monastery of San Francisco, above, artistically and historically, one of the richest treasures in Quito.
[131]