MARTINIQUE & GUADELOUPE
WEATHER IN FORT-DE-FRANCE—Lat. N14°38 —Alt. Approx, sea level
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
Í Low	69°	69°	69°	71°	73°	74°	74°	74°	74°	73°	72°	70'
Temp. < High	83°	84°	85°	86°	86°	86°	86°	87°	88°	87°	86°	84‘
1 Average	76°	76°	77°	79°	80°	80°	80°	81°	81°	80°	79°	77‘
Days of Rainfall	19	15	15	13	18	21	22	22	20	19	20	19
LOCATION . . . One of the largest islands in the Lesser Antilles, Martinique is situated half way between Puerto Rico and Trinidad. Fort-de-France is 278 air miles from Trinidad.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Martinique “where it is always summer” with its average temperature varying between 75° and 80° is a place for tourists to enjoy tennis, swimming, sailing, fishing and relaxing in an atmosphere of tropical beauty. There is practically no night life and by 10 p.m. every place is quiet.
POPULATION ... In 1950, it was estimated to be 260,000 of which approximately 4,000 are white and the rest colored.
SIZE... Approximately 50 miles long and 19 miles wide, Martinique has an area of 385 square miles.
CAPITAL ... Fort-de-France, a city of approximately 66,000.
GOVERNMENT . . . The former colony of Martinique became a department of France in 1947, consequently there is no longer a Governor, but a Prefect who is named by the French Ministry of Interior. Now that Martinique is a department (similar to a state in the United States), it has the same administration as continental France. This changeover has been as significant for Martinique as achieving statehood would be for Hawaii.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clippers, 4JA hours from San Juan, which in turn is 6hours from New York. By ship from New York, about 8 days.
MARTINIQUE
ACCOMMODATIONS • • • One of the problems of Martinique is the limited accommodations for tourists. However, two hotels are recommended. Lido Hotel, situated 4 miles away from town on the sea, is an ideal place for bathing and relaxing. Vieux Moulin Hotel, built around a two-hundred-year-old mill, situated on a hill, 2 miles away from town, offers a tennis court, bar, swimming pool and an incomparable view. Both hotels offer very good French cuisine and excellent French wines. Both are American and European plan.
BALLET • • • No ballet troupe. For native dancing, see music and night clubs.
BANKS • • • Bank of Martinique which is a private bank, represents the French-American Banking Corporation. Credit Martiniquais, representing the Royal Bank of Canada and the National City Bank of New York. Banque Nationale pour le Commerce et l’lndustrie (private bank).
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS ... All Catholic holidays, plus Bastille Day on July 14th and Armistice Day on Nov. 11th.
. CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO • • ■ American and English cigarettes are available, but are expensive, about 40 cents a pack. Tourists are allowed to bring in one carton duty free. French tobacco and cigarettes are available in good supply.
CLIMATE • • • The climate is summer-like all the year round. However, one usually counts four seasons: the warm season (May, June, July); “1’hivernage” warm and rainy season (August, September, October), period of hurricanes or thunder storms; the cool season (November, December and January), three months of ideal climate; “careme” (February, March, April) season of practically no rain.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS • There is no racial discrimination in Martinique. Every time people meet or leave each other, they shake hands. Although the native language is French, a tourist speaking only English will have little difficulty. There is no obligation for men to wear coat and ties in restaurants.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Radio telephone with Paris every week day. Telegraph office open until 10 p.m.
CURRENCY • • • American and Canadian money is acceptable, the present rate of exchange of the franc is 350 to $1.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ... All United States citizens coming to the country must have a valid passport and a continuation, or return ticket.
DRUG STORES • • • Unlike United States and British drug stores, French drug stores sell only drugs, nothing else. There are approximately 20 of them in Fort-de-France.
FAUNA • • • There are quite a few different species of birds, but no parrots. There are no monkeys. Mongooses, which look like weasels, were imported from India over fifty years ago, and have practically wiped out snakes in the island. In certain villages, fights between snakes and mongooses are arranged and offer an exciting tourist attraction.
FLORA • • • There is a great variety of flowers in Martinique: Hibiscus, wild orchids, bougainvillea, roses, Chinese hats, carnations and many others. The main plantations raise sugar cane, bananas, pineapple, coffee and cocoa.
FOOD • • • Everything but sugar is imported.
LANGUAGE • • • French is the “official” language but you’ll have little difficulty when using only English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... Dry cleaning is not reliable; a modern launderette with automatic washing machines however can be found here as in the United States.
LIQUOR • • . French liquors and perfumes are cheaper here than in any other place in America and usually tourists buy great quantities of champagne, wines, liquors and perfumes. Martinique produces some of the best rums in the West Indies and exports the major part of it to France. Bars open every day from 8 a.m. to 9 P.M.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • While not comparable to medical facilities in the United States, the hospitals in Martinique are good by West Indian standards.
MOTION PICTURES • • • There are three motion picture
[88]