NEW HORIZONS
MARTINIQUE & GUADELOUPE (Cont.)
theatres in Fort-de-France, including one modern air-conditioned theatre, showing mostly French-speaking American films.
MUSIC • • Martinique is renowned throughout the Western Hemisphere as being the home of the “Beguine.” Native orchestras and dancers excel at this fascinating music and dance.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS There are dances from time to time at the members’ club of the Lido Hotel. There is also one dance hall in town, the Select Tango where visitors can see uninhibited dancing to the sensuous rhythm of the beguine.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... L. de la Houssaye & Cie., 6-10 Rue Ernest Deproge (Tel. 648) are agents for Pan American in Fort-de-France.
RELIGION • • • Martinique is almost entirely Roman Catholic; however, other denominations exist, such as Seventh Day Adventists and Baptists.
RESTAURANTS • • • The three best restaurants in Fort-de-France are the Lido Hotel restaurant; The Vieux Moulin Hotel restaurant and L'Auberge du Manoir which offer excellent French cuisine and wines. Chez Etienne is the most popular of the less expensive restaurants.
SHOPS AND STORES • • • Shops are closed Saturday afternoon and Sunday, but open every day from 8 to 12 and from 2:30 to 5 p.m. There are a few nice shops featuring well-known French silver, crystal and perfumes, dolls dressed in the Martinique costume.
SIGHTSEEING • • • Martinique is world famous for the eruption of Mt. Pelee in 1902 which wiped out the entire population (40,000) of the former capital city of St. Pierre in three minutes. There was only one survivor, a prisoner held in an underground dungeon who died soon after, it is said, from the radioactive effect. Ruins of the city, called the “Pompeii of the New World,” afford an interesting climax to a trip along the spectacular west coast of the island, with its fishing villages, tropical beaches, cliffs and coves. The volcanic museum at the foot of Mt. Pelee vividly impresses on the visitor the inspiring violence of this catastrophe. Martinique is also renowned as the birthplace of Napolean’s Empress Josephine, whose marble statue rises in the center of the “Savanna,” the public park, in Fort-de-France. Across the beautiful Bay of Fort-de-France, at Trois-Ilets, a small museum commemorates Josephine’s actual birthplace. In Fort-de-France, the ancient fort Saint-Louis was the
scene of fierce battles among the Dutch, French and English, as the island changed hands several times during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Off the southwest coast of the island, rises the great Diamond Rock which was commissioned as a ship by the British Navy in the eighteenth century. For over 10 years, H.M.S. Diamond Rock held out against the French. This is also the location of the island’s most beautiful beach, “Diamonde,” facing Diamond Rock.
Guadeloupe . . . About 80 miles north of Martinique on Pan American’s route is the French possession of Guadeloupe, the “Emerald Isle.” The climate is mild with average temperatures of 70° to 75° throughout the year. Pointe-a-Pitre, the chief commercial town is a city of about 35,000, whereas the official ccapital is Basse Terre about 40 miles away, and connected by good roads. One of the better hotels in Point-a-Pitre is the Hotel des Antilles. There are 3 or 4 second-class hotels, where rooms can be obtained, but without bath.
There are numerous sites worth visiting: St. Claude, altitude about 550 metres above sea level, and about 3 miles from Basse Terre, is in the midst of a district producing bananas and coffee. It stands at the foot of the volcanic mountain, Soufriere (1484 metres altitude). There are numerous residences of interest, including that of the Prefect of Guadeloupe.
There is no night club life, but frequently there are dances after dinner at some of the hotels. River bathing offers many attractions, and there are also many mineral springs. Tourists should visit the “Pergola” at Gosier where they will find a good restaurant and excellent sea bathing. All kinds of liquor, champagne, and French perfume can be obtained at reasonable prices. The roads are good.
TIME • • • One hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time. For example 6 p.m. e.s.t. is 7 p.m. in Martinique.
TRANSPORTATION • • • There are several remarkable drives through the mountains and unequaled tropical scenery of the Island. Taxis are available and the fares are government regulated.
WATER • • • Though drinking of the local water supply is inadvisable, good, inexpensive locally-bottled mineral water is plentiful.
WHAT TO BUY... See under liquor and shops and stores.
WHAT TO WEAR • • • Informal, washable summer wear is recommended.
Native net thrower fishermen show tourists how web-like net is made in the interesting little village of Ville-Fontaine.
Tourists chat on dock of the Lido Hotel. Here swimming is excellent because the water is sheltered and warm. On hill in background stands the Lido.
[89]