NEW HORIZONS
ITALY (Cont.)
Best beach resort near Rome is Fregene. There is skiing at Terminillo, iy% hour drive from Rome. Also in Taormina, Sicily, and of course in the Dolomites. You can fish at Rieti, near Terminillo, in the small resorts near Naples and all along the Italian Riviera. Marvelous swimming here too. There are many good golf courses and tennis courts wherever you go in Italy. The Rome Golf Course at Acquasanta is open the year round and may be reached by streetcar. There is a bar and restaurant in the grounds. The Lido, Venice is a wonderful resort.
THEATRES . . . The opera, of course.
TIME . . . Six hours ahead of New York Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . The normal tip is lire 100—about 16c. Everybody gets tipped—from waiter and porter to taxi driver and usher, even though a service charge is included on your bill. Normally the waiter doesn’t get this service charge.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are streetcars and buses in Rome, and many taxis. You pay exactly what the meter reads, plus a small tip. After 10:00 p.m. there is a supplement of lire 150 —over the meter reading. Motor buses are modern and excellent. On trains, travel first class.
WATER. . . Water in Rome is good to drink. However, in the small towns order bottled mineral water.
WHAT TO BUY . .. Tortoise shell, amber, cameos, handbags, men’s ties, Florentine leather, olive wood boxes, gloves, Borsalino hats for men, Italian silks, custom-made shirts for men and blouses for women. Italian tailors are wonderful, too. Rosaries, crosses and religious statuary abound in Rome and some of them are beautiful. Perfumes and liquor are not good buys in Italy. Don’t buy fountain pens from street vendors. Avoid the antique and old painting racket. You’ll get hooked.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In spring, summer or fall in Rome wear lightweight clothes such as you would at home. Prints, dark sheers are acceptable. Rome is a dressy city, so don’t appear in slacks. You’ll need evening clothes in the winter and a couple of pairs of good walking shoes. You are bound to walk a lot in Rome. Men need sports jackets and slacks, lightweight suits and a dinner jacket in the winter. During the winter you’ll need heavier clothing and a fur jacket. Men will want a topcoat or something heavier.
It’s fun to hire a horse-drawn carriage for sightseeing. Here is the Colosseum and the Arch of Constantine in Rome.
The beautiful, rugged coast, the perfect climate and relaxed atmosphere make the Island of Capri near Naples a favorite vacation spot.
The famous St. Mark’s Square with the cathedral and the Ducal Palace is one of the principal points of interest in Venice.
Menoggio near Milan is one of the picturesque towns on Lake Como, most famous of the Italian lakes with the Alps in the background. An hour’s ride from Milan.
[27]