« 0
PHILIPPINES
in the Malay Archipelago. Borneo lies to the southwest and Formosa less than 100 miles to the north. Luzon is the largest of the islands.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Manila has practically recovered from the war and offers a welcome to tourists. The hotels are good. Beach resorts, within an hour’s flight of the city, are splendid. English is generally spoken and the average American feels at home even though the scenery, the people and the customs are foreign. Winter is a fine time to visit the Philippines for the sun shines constantly and the outdoor life is good.
POPULATION . . . 19,234,182 in 1948, of which 9,073,705 live on Luzon.
SIZE . . . The total land area is 115,601 square miles, slightly larger than Arizona, but the islands are spread over an area as large as Mexico. Luzon, with 40,420 square miles, is the size of Kentucky.
CAPITAL . . . Quezon City, a suburb of Manila, is now the official capital, although the seat of the national government remains in Manila with a population of about 983,906, roughly the population of San Francisco.
GOVERNMENT . . . Formerly a dependency of the United States, the Philippines is now a republic of 51 provinces with a President and a bicameral legislative body. The Philippines was granted her independence on July 4, 1946 by the President of the United States. There are 51 provinces and 26 cities in the Philippines.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper from San Francisco via Honolulu, about 38 hours (elapsed time) to Manila. Hong Kong is 4 hours and Singapore about 7 hours non-stop from Manila. By ship from San Francisco, 21 to 27 days.
MANILA
ACCOMMODATIONS. .. There are several excellent hotels in Manila. The Manila Hotel which is right on the Manila Bay facing the Luneta Park, the Majestic Hotel and newly rebuilt Bay View Hotel on Dewey Boulevard also facing the Luneta, the Swiss Inn, also on the Boulevard and Avenue Hotel in the heart of the downtown district. Rates are $5.00 up.
ARTS . . • The National Museum and the Art Gallery of the University of the Philippines offer interesting relics of weapons, art and costumes and literature dating back to several centuries past.
BALLET. . . Ballet schools and public ballet performances are frequently held in Manila.
BANKS . . . The National City Bank of New York, Bank of America, Philippine National Bank, Bank of the Philippine Islands, Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, Philippine Trust Company, Peoples Bank and Trust Co., Nederlandsh Indische Handelsbank.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS.. . New Year s Day, Good Friday, May 1st (Labor Day), July 4th (P.I. Independence Day), August 19th (Quezon’s Birthday), August 26th (First Cry of Balintawak), November 1st (All Saints’ Day), November 30th (National Heroes Day), Christmas Day.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS .. . You can get American cigarettes and the Filipinos are now manufacturing American type cigarettes. Their Alhambra cigars are said to be as fine as any cigars in the world.
CLIMATE . . . The best season in Manila is around Christmas when the temperature is about 80 to 85 degrees. The rainy season is from July to October and it really rains. April and May are exceedingly warm months.
CLUBS. . . The Army and Navy Club, just opposite the Manila Hotel, The Elks Club on the Dewey Boulevard and in the
suburb, Manila Club, Yacht Club, Wack Wack Country Club, Manila Golf Club. And most beautiful, the Polo Club with all facilities. Cards may be arranged by members.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... Filipinos are noted for their hospitality. Men may go to restaurants and bars without coats; however, in exclusive places like the Manila Hotel and other night clubs, coats and ties are necessary.
COMMUNICATIONS.. . Radio, cables, transpacific telephone calls.
CURRENCY... The monetary unit is the peso, worth 2 pesos to an American dollar which has been established by treaty.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED BY UNITED STATES CITIZENS... Passport and visa. Smallpox vaccination certificate necessary. Tourists may bring in two cartons of cigarettes or equivalent in pipe tobacco or cigars duty free. Two bottles of liquor is normally allowed without customs taxes.
DRUG STORES ... On the Escolta, the shopping center of Manila, there is an American-Filipino drug store called the “Botica Boie”. Among the larger drug stores are the Metro Drug, Modern Pharmacal, Lexal Laboratories, including the Oro chain of drug stores.
FAUNA. . . The carabao, or water buffalo, is indigenous. There are several colorful varieties of birds which are exported to the United States.
FLORA. . . The flowers are beautiful, they are smaller and more fragrant than ours. In June and July you can get quantities of gardenias for practically nothing.
FOOD . .. Rice, of course, is the staple food. Native dishes include: adobo (a mixture of chicken, pork and beef and lots of garlic); lechon (a whole roasted pig). The Filipinos eat lots of Spanish and Chinese food, too.
[151]