COLOMBIA
Lat. N4°36'—Alt. 8,500'
UNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC. 58=	57°	57°	57°	58°	58°	58°
17	17	18	13	22	16	12
LOCATION . . . Colombia lies in the northwest corner of South America at the northern end of the Andes, the only country on the continent which fronts on both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Colombia is perhaps the most purely Spanish of all South American countries, a characteristic which is reflected in its architecture. Bogota, the capital, is frequently called the “Athens of America” because of its interest with things cultural.
The principal thoroughfare, Av. Caracas, stretches for sixty blocks and is a colorful contrast of women in smart French frocks and Indians wearing ponchos. Everybody wears gray or black. The hotels, clubs and theatres are very fine. In fact Bogota is specially proud of the latter. Orchids grow in wild profusion in Colombia and are one of the sights of Medellin. Colombia is a country of infinite variety and color, of contrasts in climate and cities.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 11,000,000, the country has about as many inhabitants as New York, Philadelphia and St. Louis.
SIZE... 439,830 square miles, slightly larger than Texas and California combined.
CAPITAL ... Bogota, with a population of 643,187 is near the size of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
GOVERNMENT... A republic governed by a President.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By AVIANCA, through-plane, one-stop service to Barranquilla from New York,
hours (elapsed time); non-stop from Miami, 4 hours flying time; Bogota is 2 hours flying time from Barranquilla; Cali is 70 minutes from Bogota. By Panagra, non-stop from Panama City to Cali, 3(4 hours; to Medellin, 2Vi hours. By ship, 5 to 6 days from New York to Barranquilla with stopover.
WEATHER IN BOGOTA—] JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY J Average Temp.	58°	58°	59°	59°	59°
Days of Rainfall	7	8	8	16	21
BOGOTA
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are many hotels and pensions. The Hotel Continental is the newest and best, the Granada is spacious and old-fashioned. Others are the Hotel San Francisco, the Casa Marina, and the Pension Santa Fe.
ARTS . . . The National Museum contains galleries devoted to Indian ceramics, sculptures and silver. There are rooms given over to the colonial period. The Museum of Fine Arts contains examples of paintings and sculptures by native artists dating back to the colonial period. The Casa Colonial Museum also houses relics and paintings of the colonial age. The Quinta Bolivar, home of Bolivar in Bogota, houses relics of the liberator. The Conciliar Seminary has a collection of colonial art. In the Bank of the Republic, the Gold and Emerald Museums too.
BANKS . . . The Banco de la Republica, Banco de Colombia, National City Bank of New York, Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of Bogota, Bank of London and South America.
BALLET . . . Many visiting ballet groups the year around. There is also a ballet academy in Bogota.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . May 1, Labor Day; July 20, Independence Day; August 7, Battle of Boyaca; October 12, Columbus Day; November 11, Independence of Cartagena; Christmas and New Year’s Day. The banks close from December 24th to January 2nd.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . All American brands of cigarettes and tobacco. Cigarettes are about 25 cents U. S. per package. There is also a variety of local cigarettes, cigars and tobacco at much lower prices. All very good.
CLIMATE . . . Bogota has an altitude of 8,500 feet and the city is cool, similar to early spring in the United States. Colombia is at its best from December to March.
CLUBS . . . Jockey Club, Gun Club, Anglo-American Club, Club Medico (for doctors) Lawyers’ Club (for lawyers) and Rotary Club. Country Clubs are: Bogota Country Club, The Lagartos’s Club, San Andres Golf Club, American Sport Club.
Cards may be obtained through a member only.
COMMON COURTESIES AND CUSTOMS ... Strictly European. Dinner as late as 10:30. High Society is usually seen during late evenings in the best places. Custom of the middle class in Bogota is to visit the National Parks on weekends and holidays.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . All America Cables for overseas cables; Radiograms through Radio Corporation of America; long distance telephone service to the United States and Canada is available.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the peso, worth about 2.50 to the dollar.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Tourists may obtain a Tourist Card valid for stays up to 90 days; passport not required. Smallpox Vaccination Certificate (not more than 3 years old), and General Health Certificate. Commercial travelers may obtain business visas. Transportation to a point outside of Colombia also required. You may bring in duty-free a limited amount of tobacco and liquor for personal use. Currency must be declared and one is not permitted to leave the country with more than the amount brought in.
DRUG STORES ... At least one on every street. All United States products are carried.
FAUNA . . . Colombia is filled with wild life. Jaguars, pumas, panthers, armadillos, tapirs and partridge are waiting for the hunter.
FLORA . . . Many varieties of tropical flowers, particularly orchids from Medellin.
FOOD ... The native dishes are highly spiced and marvelous. Try Polio a la cazadora, or chicken in butter sauce, baked in wine, mustard and vinegar. You’ll find tamales here, too. The cities have restaurants and hotels which serve international food.
GAMBLING ... Horse racing on Sundays at the Hipodromo with pari-mutuels.
[132]