TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
WEATHER IN PORT OF SPAIN—Lat. N10°45'—Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
Í Low	71°	7,o	71°	73°	74°	74°	72°	73°	73°	73°	73°	72‘
Temp. < High	85°	86°	87°	88°	88°	87°	87°	87°	88°	88°	87°	86‘
/ Average	78°	78°	79°	80°	81°	80°	80°	80°	80°	80°	80°	79‘
Days of Rainfall	14	8	8	7	10	17	20	21	18	16	17	16
LOCATION . . . Most southerly of the West Indies, the island of Trinidad is only about 10 miles from the Paria peninsula of Venezuela. The tiny island of Tobago lies about 20 miles northeast of Trinidad.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Trinidad is the most colorful and polyglot of all the West Indian islands. Here you may see an East Indian woman in a sari with a ring in her nose, Hindus in traditional dress, calypso singing Negroes. Portuguese, African and Chinese. There are Moslem mosques, Hindu temples, and bazaars. There are wonderful roads, beautiful scenery and some fine bathing beaches. The climate is splendid and the nights are cool. The island of Tobago, sometimes called Robinson Crusoe’s Island, is reached by plane or boat from Trinidad. Here is where you will find the magnificent Bird of Paradise Sanctuary, a whole coastful of wonderful beaches, quiet guest houses and an unspoiled quality which exists almost nowhere else in the Caribbean.
POPULATION . . . Trinidad has a population of 588,000 (near the population of Buffalo) of which about one-third are Indians. Tobago has a population of about 30,000.
SIZE . . . Trinidad, 50 miles long and 30 miles Wide, is about the size and shape of Rhode Island. Tobago is 26 miles long and about seven miles wide.
CAPITAL ... Port of Spain, with a population of 103,155, slightly smaller than Duluth, Minnesota.
GOVERNMENT ... A British colony, Trinidad and Tobago are combined for administrative purposes.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper de luxe non-stop service, New York to Port of Spain, 9 hours flying time; frequent Clipper service from other British West Indies islands and The Virgin Islands. By ship, about 4V2 days from New York.
PORT OF SPAIN
ACCOMMODATIONS ... The Queen's Park Hotel is located on the Savannah, which is 200 acres of green turf. This is the center of Port of Spain’s social life. Rates from $9.50 (BWI) single. The Mt. Saint Benedict Guest House located on a hilltop is operated by the Benedictine monks. There are limited accommodations here (about 12 rooms) with rates of about $3 to $7. This is a nice place to go for tea. The view is stupendous. There are many guest houses in Port of Spain and in the surrounding countryside. Most of them charming, all of them reasonable. There is a Pan American World Airways guest house with air-conditioned cocktail lounge and rooms near Piarco airport. Also the Bel-Air Hotel at the Piarco airport.
ARTS . . . Royal Victoria Institute Museum; Art Society.
BALLET . . . None, but native dances at carnival time are a feature.
BANKS . . . Barclay’s Bank, Canadian Bank of Commerce; Royal Bank of Canada; Gordon, Grant & Co., Ltd. Banking hpurs are 8 a.m. to noon, Monday through Saturday.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; Good Friday; Empire Day; King’s Birthday; Whit Monday; First Monday in August; Christmas; Boxing Day, December 26th. Carnival starts two days before Lent and the streets are crowded with costumed natives, Calypso bands roaming from place to place. It is one of the rowdiest carnivals in the world, but one of the most colorful.
CIGARETTES . . . American cigarettes are not available; bring in what you need and pay the duty. English cigarettes are, of course, available.
CLIMATE.. .January to March is the ideal time in Trinidad. The weather is cooler then, but even in the hotter months, the nights are cool. The rainy season is June to December, but although the rains are heavy they are of short duration.
CLUBS . . . The Perseverance Club, the St. Andrews Golf Club, the Tranquillity Tennis Club, Canadian Women’s Club, India Club, The Trinidad Country Club. (Cards may be arranged.) The Y.W.C.A., the Palm Beach Aquatic Club.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Since this is a British Crown Colony, afternoon tea is a ritual. Customs are standard European and American.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Airmail service to the United States, radio telephone to the United States and Canada. World wide cable service.
CURRENCY . . . Trinidad has a unique currency system. Its monetary unit is the B.W.I. dollar, worth about $1.69 to the United States dollar. The small coins are British, the arithmetic, American. Hence a shilling is twenty-four cents. But it means Trinidad cents. It is wise to get Trinidad dollars early.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED ... No passports or visas. Yellow fever innoculation required for entry from some areas. You may bring in one pint of spirits or one quart of wine and a half pound of tobacco.
DRUG STORES . . . There are chemist’s shops in Port of Spain which carry well known brands of merchandise, but do not have soda fountains and other things we find in drug stores at home.
FAUNA . . . Wonderful birds including the famous “Qu’est-ce-qu’il dit” (What does he say?) bird which repeats the question several times in a row. There are deer and small game, too. The many species of humming birds have caused the place to be called “Land of the Humming Bird.”
FLORA... The place is ablaze with flowers of all descriptions. In the wonderful Botanic Gardens there are cabbage palms; strychnine plants; flytrap flowers; orchids everywhere you turn. All over the island there are lemon grass; bamboo trees; date
[96]