NEW HORIZONS
THE NETHERLANDS (Cont.)
are fashionable spots operated on a membership basis where you can go after that. A card may be obtained. TThere are several large clubs with floor shows, such as Femina and the Casino.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Hirschbuilding Leidse-plein (Tel. 34760).
RELIGION .. . The Royal family belongs to the Netherlands Reformed Church (Presbyterian), but there are all sects.
RESTAURANTS . . . The dining room at the Victoria is one of the best places to eat in Amsterdam. There is also the world famous VijjfVlieghen (Five Flies) which is delightful and the food is marvelous. The Lido on a canal, De Smorre, one of the really swank places, the Schiller, Dikker & Thijs, and the Excelsior. In addition there are many Dutch East Indian, Chinese, Japanese and Jewish restaurants, all of them excellent.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The shopping center is located on Kalverstraat, a long winding street which is filled with smart,' modern stores. Among the best are the Bonneterie (a Dutch Saks Fifth Avenue), Hirsch at the Leidseplein, and the Bijenkorf.
SIGHTSEEING ... A must on your list is a trip to the gloriously colorful tulip fields. Holland has a million acres planted with tulip bulbs which are famous throughout the world. It is one of the most beautiful sights you’ll ever see. Since canals are the main thoroughfares in Holland, whatever you do, don’t miss taking a trip through Amsterdam in one of the glass topped motor launches. The boats go through all the important canals as well as the smaller ones. They take you under historic old bridges, past steep gabled houses, past the house with the purple window panes and the church of “Our Lord in the Attic,” an old hide-out church, dating from the time of the Reformation. These boats also take you through the large harbor where the ocean liners come in through the largest canal in the world. Amsterdam is a city combining the old with the new, many of the housing projects and public buildings are magnificent examples of modern architecture. Be sure not to miss going to some of the diamond cutting factories (Amsterdam is the world’s headquarters for diamond cutting). Other places of interest to the tourist are the Botanical Gardens, the Artis, Zoological Gardens, and the Almhouses which are all pretty little houses surrounded by lovely gardens. You should see the New Church which contains the tombs of Admirals de Ruyter, Van Galen, Van Kinsbergen and Van Speyk, and also see the Old Church built in 1300 with sculptures by A. Quellijn. While in Amsterdam you should make excursions to the picturesque islands of Marken and Volendam. Here, perhaps more than any place in Holland, you will see the natives dressed mainly in traditional Holland costumes. A trip to Alkmaar, the world famous cheese markets on Fridays is a must.
Schiphol, Amsterdam’s great airport is just a few miles outside of the city. It was opened in 1920, completely destroyed during the war; now rebuilt, it is one of the leading airports in Europe. The village of Aalsmeer, near Schiphol consists of little green islands completely covered with flowers, which are gathered in the morning and are taken to the auction. Later most of the flowers are dispatched by air to all the capitals in Europe. Only a few miles south of Amsterdam, there is an unusual stretch of sandy country with delightful woods and two old fortress towns as well as some new and modern villages. Het Gooi, the garden of Amsterdam where many of the workers of the capital live, is within twenty minutes of the city. Besides its natural beauty, it is known over the world for its architecture. The Town Hall of Hilversum designed by the famous Dutch architect Dudok van Heel, is outstanding. There are excellent hotels here and a wonderful 18-hole golf course. Artists will certainly want to go to Laren to see the permanent exhibition of works of modern Dutch artists. And don’t miss the Muiderslot, a medieval castle, in the same district.
the Hague ... While Amsterdam is the capital, The Hague is the seat of the government and has been since 1247 when Count Willem II built his castle there near the sea. All various government departments are located there, including all foreign embassies. As in Amsterdam there are many interesting buildings, both old and new to be seen in The Hague. Among the first places on your list to see should be the Knight’s Hall, new addition to the Palace (built in 1280) where every third Tuesday in September the Queen opens the combined Chambers of Parliament, in a
colorful and solemn session; The Mauritshuis Museum houses a collection of famous Dutch paintings, among them sixteen by Rembrandt; Van Gogh and others are represented here. The Mauritshuis is the old palace of Count Johan Maurits van Nassau, once Governor of the Dutch possessions in Brazil. The Palace is open daily to visitors. Another interesting place to see is the prison building. Torture instruments are still on display from the days when one of the leaders of the old Dutch republic was nearly tortured to death. Every visitor to the Hague will want to visit the Church of St. Jacob where members of the Dutch Royal family are all baptized and where their marriages take place. While a great many buildings here too were practically destroyed during the war, some came through without any damage. The Peace Palace, seat of the International Court of Justice, was one of them. This building was erected with funds donated by the late Andrew Carnegie. The Municipal Museum which contains a great collection of art works, was badly damaged, but has reopened. Other galleries you may want to see are the Bredius Museum, the Mesdag Museum and many of the smaller ones.
There are excellent hotels and restaurants in The Hague. Among the better hotels are the Des Indes, Oude Doelen, Witterbrug, Central and Terminus. The restaurants in The Hague are superb; here again there are many East Indian restaurants. The Warong Djawa, is one of the best known Javanese rice-table restaurants. The Meerrust, in the lake district is one of the most famous restaurants in Holland. You can go to the Royal for French cuisine and to the Jachthuis for game. The Old Dutch Restaurant in The Hague has very excellent food and is inexpensive. While there you will want to attend a concert by the famous “Residentie Orchestra” with outstanding guest conductors and artists. Within fifteen minutes by trolley you can get to Scheveningen which is a wonderful seaside resort. This is divided into two parts, one the old fishing village where the women still wear the traditional costumes and wooden shoes (though not very colorful, more on the sombre side) and the other part which is a fashionable resort, with many good hotels and many restaurants and all bathing facilities. It has a wonderful broad beach. You will have plenty of activity to choose from here; there is a magnificent 18-hole golf course, tennis courts, riding schools and a famous race-track at Duindigt. North of The Hague is the tree shaded village of Wassenaar and to the south one of the best known horticultural regions which extends as far back as the Hook of Holland and Rotterdam. The glass hot houses here are famous for their grapes, tomatoes, peaches and flowers. Rotterdam which was practically demolished during the war is being rebuilt and doing wonderfully.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . The most popular sport is soccer. Also tennis, hockey matches and cycling.
SPORTS • • • Swimming, sailing, fishing, horseback riding, golfing, shooting and tennis. Very little polo or squash. Ice skating, of course, in winter. Remember Hans Brinker! There are some fine golf courses in Holland, especially “Wassenaar,” near the Hague, “Hilversum” in Hilversum; “De Pan” near Utrecht and “Kennemer” in Zandvoort.
THEATRES . . . Matinees about the same as here. Evening performances 8:00. Matinees on Sunday.
TIME . . . Six hours ahead of New York Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Usually 10 to 15 per cent, more on smaller amounts. If a service charge is not included in the hotel bill, tip 15 per cent of the whole bill.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Bicycles are used by every one, from the Queen down, because of the flat country. Trains between Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam run about every half hour. Taxis are not hard to get, but are fairly high. Rates increase after 11 p.m. The trolleys are fun and cheap.
WATER . . . Excellent everywhere.
WHAT TO BUY ... Silverware, china, chocolates and a Dutch specialty, “hopjes” (a coffee candy), leather ware, diamonds, of course. Don’t buy flower bulbs to take, without a certificate of health. The growers and the shop keepers will send them on to you; feather hats are the big buy at Volendam.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Same type of clothing you would wear in the different seasons at home. In the summer be sure to have a raincoat and light weight topcoat for cool evenings.
[32]