PUERTO RICO
ATLANTIC OCEAN
CARIBBEAN SEA
		WEATHER IN SAN JAN. FEB. MAR. APR.				JUAN—Lat. N18°28'—Alt. 20' MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.				NOV.	DEC
	Low	70°	69°	70°	71°	73°	74»	75° 75°	75° 75°	73°	71°
Temp, s	High	80°	80°	81°	82°	84°	85°	85° 85°	86° 86°	84°	81°
	Average	75°	75°	75°	77°	79°	80°	00 o 00	© 00 oo	79°	76°
Days of Rainfall		21	15	16	14	16	17	19 20	18 17	20	22
LOCATION . . . Puerto Rico lies between the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean. Ciudad Trujillo is about 45 miles to the west and St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, is 75 miles to the east of San Juan.
CHARACTERISTICS ... You really are “at home abroad” in Puerto Rico, for it is part of the United States, yet truly foreign in atmosphere. It has been called the most European of the Caribbean countries and with justice. The beaches are wonderful, the hotels among the most luxurious, the food comparable to the best in Spain and Paris. Yet you have a wonderful feeling of being at home in Puerto Rico despite the fact that chaperons are still the fashion and that coffee and banana trees flourish before your eyes. The fisherman will be particularly happy there, and the sun shines all the year.
POPULATION... 2,205,398—about equal to the inhabitants of Los Angeles and Miami combined.
SIZE ... 95 miles long and 35 miles wide, Puerto Rico has an area of 3,435 square miles, about one and a half times the size of Delaware.
CAPITAL... San Juan, with a population of 223,949—slightly larger than Syracuse, New York.
GOVERNMENT ... A part of the United States, Puerto Rico nevertheless, elects its own Governor, Senate and House of Representatives, and a Resident Commissioner in Washington.
HOW TO GET THERE... By Pan American Clipper, direct non-stop flights, from New York, about 6y2 hours flying time; from Miami non-stop, 5 hours flying time. By ship 3l/i days from New York.
SAN JUAN
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are at least two very good hotels in San Juan. The new and fabulous Caribe Hilton with its three hundred rooms (all air-conditioned, each with its own balcony), swimming pool, cocktail lounges, casino, private beach with cabanas and night club, has everything and a little bit more. Rates start at $6 to $9 single ($10 to $12 double) without meals. Suites run higher. The Condado Beach Hotel has been completely renovated and enlarged. It has a beautiful private beach and pool, night club, casino and tennis courts. The Condado faces the beach in the Santurce section of the city. Same rates as above. “Out on the island” there are first-class accommodations at the Borinquen Country Club in Aguadilla and others listed under sightseeing.
ARTS ... In Rio Piedras, the University of Puerto Rico. A beautiful campus and fine buildings in a Baroque style make this an interesting visit. The small museum on the left of the main Quadrangle is open 8:00 a.m. to noon, Monday through Saturday, and 1:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Professor Rafael Ramirez is in charge and will gladly relate many interesting stories of fact and legend. Museum and Zoo in Munoz Rivera Park have a continuous display of industrial products and historical records as well as a small zoo.
BALLET . . . Although there is no local ballet, visiting companies from the States appear there.
BANKS . . . National City, Chase National, Royal Bank of Canada.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . The same as ours with the addition of local religious festivals. Abolition Day, March 22nd. The Christmas festivities are famous. St. John’s Night (midsummer) is a holiday.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . . . Well known brands available, but prices are a little higher than at home.
CLIMATE . . . There are no extremes of heat or cold. It can get up to about 85 degrees at San Juan, but the hills and moun-
tains are always several degrees cooler. November to May the coast is cooler. San Juan averages about 355 sunny days a year. Puerto Rico is ideal for vacationing the year around and December through May is especially recommended.
CLUBS . . . Rotary, Lions, Elks, American Legion. There are many private clubs.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . The chaperon is still in evidence in Puerto Rico, although it is part of the United States. Its newspapers are printed in Spanish. Also, there is no color line or segregation in the sense that we know at home. Puerto Ricans go swimming only in the months with no “R,” think we are slightly mad to swim in winter.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone and telegraph service to the United States and other countries. Air-mail, 6 cents per ounce.
CURRENCY . . . The United States dollar, of course.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . This is part of the United States; you do not need passports nor visa. But remember that only Puerto Rico is part of the United States, so that anything you may buy in other Caribbean spots is declarable there.
DRUG STORES . . . Same as at home.
FAUNA . . . Wonderful tropical birds, parrots, doves, mocking birds, cuckoos, flycatchers.
FLORA . . . All sorts of tropical flowers, orchids, bougainvillea, hibiscus mahogany trees, pineapple and other tropical fruits.
FOOD . . . Puerto Rican food is definitely Spanish. Famous are Arroz con polio; Asopoa, a soupy dish of rice cooked with shrimp or chicken; Pas teles, grated plantains with a meat filling wrapped in plantain leaves and boiled; Lechon Asado, a barbecued pig; Jueyes, fresh land crabs, shelled and boiled; and Pastelillos, thin dough filled with meat or cheese and deep-fat fried. Of course, you may find good plain American cooking in Puerto Rican restaurants. Good French and Italian food, too.
[73]