NEW HORIZONS
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (Cont.)
palms; para rubber trees; Ceylon willows; century plants; red flowering immortelles which literally blaze all over the Island; poui trees which have golden blossoms and many hundreds of brilliant tropical blooms. Anthurium lilies are beautiful here.
FOOD. . . Creole cooking is most popular in Trinidad. But it’s possible to have international fare as well. Specialties include sancoche and callalloo, wonderful soups, both of them. Pastelles, made of meat and dough are wonderful. Crab meat served in shells; and tiny oysters are famous. As you might expect of a spot where there is a large East Indian population, curries are famous. So are roti and other Indian dishes which are very hot and spicy. Of course, fresh fruit abounds; avocado pear; sapodillas, mangoes.
LANGUAGE. . . English, of course, is the native tongue. But French, Spanish, Hindi, Chinese and other languages are heard in this most polyglot of the West Indies islands.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES... Laundry is good. Dry cleaning is good, with 12-hour service.
LIQUOR. . . Rum is the national drink. And Trinidad is the home of Angostura Bitters. Many rum drinks cost about 15 cents and they are wonderful. Whiskey and brandies and gins are available at prices comparable to those in the United States. Gin is slightly less and the British gin flourishes here. But Planter’s Punch is the thing.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... The Colonial Hospital is modern and there are good English trained doctors.
MOTION PICTURES. . . There are five cinemas: the Astor; the De Luxe; the Empire; the Globe and the Royal which show American and English films.
MUSIC. . . Trinidad is the home of the Calypso and the more recent steel band which consists of steel drums of varying tones beaten to Calypso rhythm. The Calypso singer, as everyone knows, takes a topical theme and weaves it into an extemporaneous song. In January, Calypso tents spring up all over the city and various Calypso singers vie with each other in a “war.”
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . There are few night clubs as we know them, but there is dancing at the charmingly situated Perseverance Club and the Trinidad Country Club. Dirty Jim's Swizzle Club features Calypso singing and steel bands. The Bombay Club is a late spot.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE...5 Abercromby St.; Queen’s Park Hotel.
RELIGION. . .Because of the polyglot nature of the population, one finds churches of almost all faiths here. Hindu temples, Moslem mosque, Jewish synagogues, Catholic cathedrals and Protestant churches.
RESTAURANTS.. .The clubs and hotels have the best food, the Normandie specializes in French food. The Queen's Park Lounge and the Angostura Lounge are the favorite cocktail places. The Angostura Lounge used to serve drinks on the house, but not any more. There are not many restaurants, but there are two new places, the China Clipper restaurant and Tavern-on-the-Green which serve the curries and spicy foods of the East Indies.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Frederick Street is the main shopping thoroughfare, with its shops and stores in English and American style where you may buy British products quite cheaply. There are Hindu bazaars with some fascinating Indian goods.
SIGHTSEEING. . . Trinidad is one of the most colorful of the West Indies. Its population is a mixture of East Indian, British, Negro, Spanish, French and Portuguese—which in itself makes the streets of Port of Spain fascinating. You will want to see the Pitch Lake (Asphalt) which is supposed to be 285 feet deep. You can walk on the lake without sinking in. Trinidad pitch or asphalt has paved some of the most famous streets in the world. Take a drive over the beautiful North Coast Road and swim at Maracas Bay. The return drive over “The Saddle” is famed for its bamboo groves. There are fascinating teak forests to be seen, too. The Botanic Gardens in Port of Spain are fabulous and a must on anyone’s list. Professional guides take you through the garden where you see bamboo groves, banyan trees, orchids by the thousands and other magnificent specimens of tropical flora. The Angostura plant where the Angostura
bitters are manufactured is worth seeing. At San Fernando on the shore of the gulf of Paria, is the largest sugar factory in the British Empire. There are good beaches in Trinidad, but not within easy reach of Port of Spain. But the scenery everywhere is magnificent. Inland, the mountains rise to a height of 3,000 feet and afford wonderful views of the valleys and the sea. There is a spectacular waterfall in Maracas Valley. Trinidad is proud of its excellent roads, and you will enjoy hiring a car and touring the island. Visit a Moslem mosque, a Hindu temple.
tobago .. .The little island of Tobago is rapidly becoming a favorite tourist spot. Tobago may be reached only from Port of Spain by coastal boat or by plane. Allegedly the setting of the story of Robinson Crusoe, the Island is famous for its tropical birds, particularly the Bird of Paradise which is found here and in New Guinea. Birds of Paradise are found on Ingram Island (Bird of Paradise Island) off the northern tip of Tobago. You reach Ingram Island from Speyside in a small rowboat. The birds are hard to see for they are very shy; but if you are lucky enough to see them in numbers, it is an unforgettable experience.
There are three main hotels and one guest house. The principal and most modern hotel is B/uehaven an architectural gem in a setting of coconut palms and blue sea. Just completed, Bluehaven offers every comfort and convenience allied to first-class cuisine and wine cellar. All rooms have a balcony overlooking the beach, private bath and telephone. There is a twenty-four hour room service, and drive-yourself cars and a fishing launch are available to guests. The terms inclusive of all room service are about $12.00 per day B.W.I., an equivalent at today’s rate of about $7.00 U. S. A. The Robinson Crusoe which is located on Rockley Bay, faces the sea and has its own beach and tennis courts. Rooms with bath, American plan are about $8 per day, The Burleigh House, a guest house with about four rooms, nearby is small and charming. Also with its own beach. Rates are slightly less here. Bird of Paradise Inn faces Bird of Paradise Island and has a charm of its own. It consists of two small cottages and a central dining room and lounge. Heale Guest House also faces the sanctuary. Bathing is good. Bacolet Guest House consists of small bungalows surrounding the main building. Rates from $7 up. You will want to drive to Man O’War Bay, a wonderful natural bay with hills reaching to the water’s edge. Here is a wonderful sandy beach. Pigeon Point is one of the best bathing beaches in the West Indies. You will swim here at the Aquatic Club. There are cabanas, but cabanas thatched with palm leaves. It costs a shilling to swim here. Pigeon Point is another wonderful beach and permission must be obtained to swim. Here, equipped with sea goggles you may see fascinating marine life in the Coral Sea Gardens at Buccoo Reef. There are many other beautiful beaches on Tobago which is literally ringed with them. There is excellent deep-sea fishing, horse racing twice a year and horseback riding and tennis; a golf course is under construction. Tobago is a place to relax and enjoy. All hotels and guest houses are American plan.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Horse racing at Queen’s Park race track. Boxing and basketball. Also cricket and soccer.
SPORTS . . . Golf at St. Andrew’s Golf Club; tennis at the Tranquillity Lawn Tennis Club; swimming at the Perseverance Club, Trinidad Country Club. There is good deep-sea fishing and duck shooting. But bring your own equipment. Trinidad boasts of 2,000 miles of good roads for motoring, too.
THEATRES. . . Occasional plays by little theatre group.
TIME . . . One hour ahead of our Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . About what you would at home.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are motor buses and taxis.
WATER. . . Water is safe to drink at hotels.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Rum is cheap and very, very good. It is possible to buy British woolens and other British merchandise far more reasonably than in the United States. Trinidad is best for silver jewelry.
WHAT TO WEAR...Tropical clothes, cottons, beach wear. You’ll need evening clothes since you are on British soil. Take a raincoat in summer. Men will want cottons and linen suits, slacks, sports jackets, dinner jacket and beach attire.
[97]