NEW HORIZONS
ST. LUCIA (Cont.)
SIGHTSEEING . . . Castries, the capital of this little British island of St. Lucia, one of the Lesser Antilles chain, is a good harbor flanked by the imposing hills of Vigie and Morne Fortuné. There are interesting drives, good beaches, splendid fishing. Drive to Gros Islet and take a launch to Pigeon Island. The drive to Soufrière is picturesque and includes a stop at Sulphur Springs, noted for their medicinal value. Soufrière, the next largest town to Castries, is in the shadow of two peaks, Gros Piton and Petit Piton, which rise from the sea to more than 2000 feet. The land rises behind the town to the live crater of the volcano for which the town is named. The Piton peaks may be climbed by experienced climbers and the resultant view is magnificent and rewarding. Other things to see on this charming island include a drive to the top of Morne Fortuné where a visit should be made to Fort Charlotte. A drive along Barre-de-l’Isle, a visit to the race track at Vide Bouteille and to the Government Agricultural Station are worth while. There is wonderful scenery, beautiful tropical foliage, and a pervading charm which make a visit to this spot memorable.
SPORTS . . . Tennis, deep-sea fishing, swimming. There is excellent game fishing along the entire coast line. Tarpon, barra-
cuda, tuna, marlin, mackerel and dolphin abound. Launches, and boats can be hired at Castries, Soufrière or at almost any of the tiny fishing harbors. Bathing is wonderful at Vigie; there is a three-and-a-half-mile stretch of white sand beach where surf riding is popular. Horseback riding and hiking are popular in the forests behind the coastline. Pigeon Island Beach Club is the social center for aquatic sports. It is reached by motor launch from Gros Islet at the northern end of the island.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Cricket, tennis.
THEATRES . . . None but motion picture theatres.
TIME . . . One hour ahead of our Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . About ten to twelve per cent.
TRANSPORTATION .. . There are taxis and private cars for hire. There’s also daily coastal launch service.
WATER . . . Drink bottled or boiled water. Soft drinks and sodas are available.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Locally made jewelry; native straw products; Australian and English woolens.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Washable summer clothes, cotton; slacks and shorts. Evening clothes not essential. Light weight topcoats advisable.
The city of Castries and its sheltered harbor with background of chocolate drop mountains are an awe-inspiring sight.
[91]