NEW HORIZONS
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA (Cont.)
Daumier are all represented. There is an interesting collection of contemporary sculpture, too. The Africana Museum tells the chronological history of South Africa, very interesting and worth while.
BALLET. . . While there is no ballet company, visiting companies appear in the season (middle of May through September). The African dances are part of the life of Johannesburg. On Sunday mornings at the mine compounds there are dances by the African natives who work in the gold mines. Visitors may attend.
BANKS . . . Barclays Bank, Simmonds and Market Streets; Colonial Banking and Trust Company; Netherlands Bank of South Africa; Standard Bank of South Africa, Ltd. Fox and Harrison Streets; South African Reserve Bank, Fox and Simmons Street; American Express cash travelers’ checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; Van Riebeeck Day, April 6th; Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension Day; Union Day, May 31st; King’s Birthday, second Monday in July; Settlers Day, first Monday in September; Kruger Day, October 10th; Geloftedag (Day of Vow), December 16, which is at present Dingaan’s Day and then Christmas and Boxing Day.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . . . South Africa manufactures good cigarettes. These are far less expensive than English and American brands. You may bring in 100 duty-free; any reasonable number for personal use, but duty must be paid.
CLIMATE. . . Johannesburg is more than 5,700 feet above sea level. The seasons are the reverse of ours. June, July and August being their winter months. The variations in temperature can be very great ranging from freezing in early morning to 80 degrees at noon. There is little fog and little or no humidity. Average mean temperature is about 60 degrees.
CLUBS. . . Club life plays an important part in the social life of the city. There are many private clubs to which visiting men tourists may obtain guest cards upon introduction. There are music clubs, sports clubs, women’s clubs in great number. Among the social clubs the Rand, the New, the Union, the Automobile Club. Sports clubs include the Turf, Pony and Galloway, Rand Flying Club. The Country Club at Auckland Park, the Royal Johannesburg Golf Club, the Lido, the Rotary Club, Commissioner and Loveday Streets, the Transvaal Union Golf Club and the Municipal Golf courses, Linksfield, open to all.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There is the overseas telephone service to Great Britain, Europe and the United States. Air mail service to the United States and of course cable service. Cables are sent through the Post Office.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit is the South African pound worth about $2.80.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS. . . Passport and visa necessary. Proof of means of support. Cameras, etc., may be brought in provided they are registered with the Customs.
DRUG STORES. . . Referred to as Chemist’s Shops and carry only pharmaceuticals.
FAUNA. . . Same birds as around Capetown. Animals in surrounding country: duiker, steinbok, bushbok, koodoo— (or kudu), waterbuck, buffalo, wildebeest (gnu), blessbok, springbok, roikat (lynx), lion, leopard, elephant and rhinoceros.
FLORA. . . The Wilds, Houghton Drive is an area devoted to South African indigenous flora. It is a remarkable and colorful display of all sorts of exotic plants. Best time to see it is the Spring (September-October).
FOOD. . . International cuisine at the top restaurants. Many local dishes use maize (mealies) as a base. The variety of fruit is vast.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing throughout the year. Wednesdays, Saturdays and certain holidays. Turffbntein is the principal course. Germiston, Benoni and Newmarket hold race meets, too.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES...Good.
LIQUOR. . . South African brandies and wines are good and plentiful. All imported liquors available, but American and Scotch whisky is hard to get.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The General Hospital is the
largest and most modern in Africa. The Queen Victoria Hospital for Women is fine, too. There are excellent doctors and surgeons. Consult your hotel or call the Medical Association of South Africa, 5 Esselen Street, Hospital Hill.
MOTION PICTURES. . . There are excellent movies or cinema theatres in the city. Tops being the Colosseum, the Metro, the 20th Century and the Plaza which seat about 3,000 people. American and English films are shown and some continental.
MUSIC. . . The Johannesburg City Orchestra gives symphony concerts during August-December in City Hall. In January at Joubert Park. The Johannesburg Music Society holds monthly concerts in Selborne Hall. There are a surprising number of music clubs which hold musicales from time to time. The annual opera season is March and April at which time visiting conductors and singers come.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . There is dancing at “400 Club," Ciro's Stork Club, Hotel Sheraton, The Orange Grove, nightly. Other spots have dancing on special nights. There are several night clubs.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE. . . Maritime House (Room 911) Loveday St. (Tel. 33-0723).
RELIGION. . . The Cathedral (Anglican) 56 de Villiers Street; Church of England in S. A. Twist and Caroline Streets; Presbyterian Church, St. George’s Noord Street; Dutch Reformed Church, Plein Street; Central Congregational Church, Bree and End Streets; Baptist Church, de Villiers Street; Methodist Church, Pritchard Street; Swedish Church, Hancock and Quarts Streets; Roman Catholic Pro-Cathedral, Kerk Street; Hebrew Synagogue, Wolmarans Street.
RESTAURANTS . . . Johannesburg is a great tea room city. Fanny Farmer's has three branches; John Orr & Co., Pritchard Street is good, Stuttafords, Delmonico Anstey's are a few of them. Leading restaurants include the Carlton Grill Room, Sabaudfs, Delmonico's, East African Pavilion, His Majesty's Cellar, Lucullus and other hotel restaurants.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Stores are open from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Half-day Saturdays. John Orr & Co., Ansteys, Cleghorns, Stuttafords are the leading ones.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Johannesburg is a new city, a city built on gold which in sixty years has grown from a town of shacks to a cosmopolitan city of skyscrapers. Johannesburg is on the slopes of what is called the Witwatersrand (Ridge-of-White-Waters). The gold reefs, the largest in the world, extend east and west of the city for more than a hundred miles. The seat of the largest gold-mining industry in the world, Johannesburg is quite naturally called the Golden City. A visit to the mines is a thrilling experience. This may be arranged by permission of the Chamber of Mines. You can go six thousand feet below the streets and find yourself at sea-level. There are guides, of course, to explain the workings of the mines to you. Tours usually take place Tuesday and Thursday mornings. But permission is necessary. The city itself is modern and bright. Eloff Street is the main shopping center. Visit the Africana Museum devoted to the history of South Africa. Tour the Art Gallery which houses the paintings of famous masters. Arrange to tour a diamond cutting factory. Permission is obtained from the Master Diamond Cutters Association. From the top of Escom House, a 21-story building you get a wonderful view of the city. Be sure to visit a mine compound on Sunday morning and see the native dances by the native boys in full regalia. Permission is necessary. Spend some time in Herman Eckstein Park where the Zoological Gardens are located. This is a natural Zoo and contains some interesting specimens of South African fauna. It is a favorite picnic resort and you may boat on the lake. Visit the Union Observatory on Hospital Hill which is open to the public the second and fourth Thursday evenings each month. You will of course go to Northcliff, where, from its heights, you get a sweeping view of the central Transvaal. Northcliff is open daily and you may lunch or dine there in the terrace gardens. On Sundays there is a band concert and four evenings a week there is dancing. There are many interesting drives in and around the city and there are municipal buses which make “Round the Town,” tours. Munro Drive, Kloof Road, Sylvia Pass take you over the hills to the
[181]