NEW HORIZONS
ENGLAND AND WALES (Cont.)
practically all good. An English weekend visit is almost sure to include some good tennis as the sport is nationally popular. There is every kind of river and stream in England to make it a fisherman’s paradise. The wonderful streams such as the Test, Itche, Frome and Axe have made English trout fishing famous. The dry-fishing here ranks with the best in the world. The moor country in western England offers the wet-fly fisherman excellent casting for salmon and trout.
There’s good hunting in England for deer, hare and many kinds of fowl, including pheasant, partridge, wild geese and duck. Game licenses cost $8.50 a season for as many guns as you wish and a hunting permit, or $5.00 and $3.00 for shorter periods.
England is wonderful for the hiker and bicycling enthusiast. There is a wide variety of landscape and terrain that can be covered in a short time. The Youth Hostel Movement is very popular in England and there are more than three hundred hostels in the British Isles. These hostels offer low-cost accommodations for hikers and cyclists.
THEATRES... First of all, don’t miss seeing the famous Old Vic Company at the New Theatre in London’s West End. Also at the original new reconditioned Old Vic on the South Bank. It has a great tradition of fine acting and some of the best theatrical entertainment in the world today. London offers a great variety of plays and musical comedies during the winter season. Besides new plays there are always revivals of Shakespeare and Sheridan. You buy your program but tickets are cheap, ranging from 50 cents to $2.50 for the best seats in the house. It is best to decide when you first arrive what you are going to see and get seats in advance. Don’t miss a few evenings at the Music Halls, too. The Palladium is the home of vaudeville; the Royal Opera House; Covent Garden is a must. Theatre.time is 7 or 7:30.
TIME . . . Five hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING... The fifteen per cent rule applies at restaurants. At hotels not adding 10 to 15 percent service charge, divide 10 to 15 per cent among those giving personal service. In all cases bell-boys, doormen and busmen are tipped extra. Tip only for extra services such as delivery of tickets, etc. Tip cab drivers 6d plus 3d for each 1 /6d of fare above 2/6d. Don’t overtip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . London is a spread-out city. It will be worth your while to study the train and subway systems to various parts of it. They are good and not expensive. Taxis are available at all times and they are reasonable. There is excellent train and plane service all over England.
WATER ... The water is safe to drink all over England.
WHAT TO BUY... There’s no purchase tax for visitors on purchases worth 5 pounds or more if they’re delivered to the ship or plane or shipped home direct. Holders of U.S. passports can also eliminate the purchase tax on most items, for immediate delivery, with purchase tax coupons free at banks when yau buy pounds with dollars. Remember to ask for them. They cannot be claimed subsequently.
London is the Paris of men’s clothing. British tailors are the best in the world and custom-made clothes are much cheaper than in American shops. A beautiful Scotch tweed suit costs about $90, compared with $250 in New York. Wonderfully soft camel’s hair coats can be bought for about the same price. Handmade shoes are about half as expensive in England, costing around $25 dollars a pair. They wear forever, too. Though British tailors don’t do as good a job on women’s suits, you may wish to buy a length of tweed or woolen material to have made up in this country. The British make wonderful raincoats, including the famous Burberrys that are equally popular with men and women. Sweaters, socks and scarfs in lovely soft wool and cashmere are also relatively inexpensive. Fine umbrellas have long been a British specialty. Pencil-thin Mr. Chamberlain types are for sale at very reasonable prices. Fine old English silver is selling at a fraction of its price in America. Buy Belfast linen and lace-like porcelain from North Ireland. Fine china and glass are on the market again, too. A good buy, but fragile to ship.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Even in the middle of summer the nights in England can get as cold as October weather, and 80° is considered an unusually warm day in London. Don’t crowd your luggage with light cotton or tropical worsted clothes, unless you are going on to warmer climates. A simple wool suit and light-weight wool dresses will fill a woman’s day-time needs in London. Black cocktail dresses or dressy suits are best after five. The English wear evening clothes much more than we do, so if you plan to go at all gala bring along your formal clothes. A light-weight topcoat and a warm evening wrap are musts. So are comfortable shoes for sightseeing and hiking. Casual sportswear, but not slacks, are correct in the country. Light-weight flannel and worsted suits are fine for men in London. Odd tweed jackets worn with gray flannel slacks are good in the country. A raincoat is definitely a must all year round in England for both men and women. These suggestions are primarily for a summer wardrobe in England. If you are going in the winter, dress as you would in the United States.
imm naawr
Pembroke Castle, one of the many Norman Castles, is in Pembrokeshire, the oldest county in Southern Wales, and full of historical interest.
Stratford-on-Avon — The Great Bard himself must have strolled the banks of the gentle Avon composing sonnets on a summer afternoon. Above, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre.
Grosvenor Square— Erected through individual donations of the people of Britain, the statue of the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt stands in this historic square near the American Embassy.
[13]