NEW HORIZONS
NETHERLANDS WEST INDIES (Cont.)
you get a magnificent view of Willemstad and the Caribbean. Take a trip across the pontoon bridge called the Queen Emma, to Punda, the oldest section of Willemstad and see the floating markets, small Caribbean schooners filled with fruits and vegetables from the neighboring Latin-American Republics. Next you are in Fort Amsterdam, where the official residence of the Governor of the Netherlands West Indies is located. Fifteen minutes from town by car is the historical Jewish Cemetery, the oldest Caucasian cemetery in the Western Hemisphere, dating back to 1650. You should take a trip (55 minutes by car) to the famous coral cavern of Boca Tabla. The residential section of the city has magnificent examples of old architecture, and the garden suburbs of Willemstad are modern residences, many built since 1916 by the Curasao Petroleum and Industry Company and the Shell Oil Company. Less than two miles from Willemstad’s shopping center is the swank resort of Piscadera Bay. Here is the beautiful Piscadera Bay Club, founded as a private club it has now added a pavilion with the most modern of resort hotel facilities, which is open to visitors. There is a beautiful sandy beach, tennis courts and guests have the privileges of the nearby Shell Golf Club.
aruba . . . The island of Aruba while smaller than Curasao is an important oil refining center. The Capital, Oranjestad is typically Dutch. Aruba’s Palm Beach is one of the finest in the West Indies. It is three miles long. Bathing and sailing here are excellent. This is also one of the great fishing centers of the island. Aruba as well as Willemstad, has a wonderful shopping center and a beautiful residential section of quaint old houses, painted in the gayest of colors. Stay at the Strand hotel which faces the Caribbean. The Flamingo Restaurant on the schooner
harbor is excellent.
SPECTATOR SPORTS • • • Tennis, basketball, softball and baseball. Soccer at Rif Stadium and many club fields.
SPORTS - • • Golf at the Shell Golf Club, Tennis and Basketball at the Kwiek Club, Curasao Sport and Van Engelen Club. Also fishing, horseback riding, soccer, baseball.
TIME • • • One-half hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING • • • About the usual 10 to 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION - • • Taxis are plentiful; before taking a taxi it is wise to know whether the driver is quoting the fare in American currency. Ask the driver for a copy of the official tariff. For all rides in town, taxi fares increase 50 per cent between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. For all trips out of town, fares are 25 per cent higher between 10 p.m. and midnight and 50 per cent higher after that. Station wagon fares are lower than taxi cab fares. But you should arrange the fare with the driver before starting off. There is good bus service, too.
WATER • • • Drinking water is distilled from the sea water and purified well water. It is safe to drink right from the tap.
WHAT TO BUY • • • Swiss watches can be purchased here cheaper than any place in the world, because of the low import duty. French perfumes (all the famous makes) are very cheap. Silk and carved ivory from the Orient, Brazilian and Argentine leather goods, Portuguese embroideries and laces, Spanish shawls, Irish linen, Panama hats, Delft Blue porcelain, liqueurs and liquors, silverware and brassware, Dutch dolls for souvenirs are among the “wonderful buys” on this island.
WHAT TO WEAR • • • Lightweight summer clothing, for every season. Take a raincoat along.
The “Punda” or shopping district of Willemstad with its gaily colored store fronts and narrow streets offer outstanding bargains from many countries.
This road leads out to a pontoon bridge at the entrance of the harbor which crosses St. Ann’s Bay to connect Otraband With the city of Willemstad.
You’ll enjoy taking pictures along the busy wharf at Curasao, and seeing ships of many sizes and types from all parts of the world.
These boats at the Willemstad wharf provide a bustling floating market. Many of the ships fly Dutch flags.
[99]