NEW HORIZONS
ARGENTINA (Cont.)
TIPPING . . . Tipping has been ostensibly abolished by law.
A service charge is added to your hotel and restaurant bills. Law or no law, it is customary to tip a cab driver, a door man, movie ushers and porters. About a peso should do the trick.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis cruise the streets constantly, are identifiable by red license plates and red signals on meters.
You hiss rather than whistle for them. They are cheap but hard to get during the luncheon interval and at the end of the business day. Buenos Aires has five subway lines which are closed between 1:00 and 5:00 a.m. Streetcars are plentiful, but slow. There are buses which are comfortable and large, and buses which are uncomfortable and slow.
WATER . . . The water in Buenos Aires is excellent.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Alligator bags and other articles made of alligator leather are much cheaper here than at home. A good bag can be bought for $20. Handmade shoes are less expensive in Argentina, too. Furs are excellent. Paraguay hand-made lace is beautiful and not expensive. Steamer rugs and ponchos made of vicuna and guanaco fur. The antique shops sometimes turn up
a bargain. Swiss watches are low priced here, too. Bombachas, the baggy trousers worn by gauchos are fun to bring home. Most popular souvenir is the “mate” used for drinking yerba maté and the “bombilla” or silver tube that goes with it. Don’t be tempted by aigrettes, birds of paradise or ostrich. You can’t bring them through our customs.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Dress in Buenos Aires exactly as you would in any large city. In their winter you’ll need a fur coat or a winter wool coat. Suits, afternoon dresses. In their summer, linens and cottons, sheer dark crepes. Evening clothes, of course, if you are going to be social. You dress for the Opera galas, not for the theatre. Men dress conservatively in Buenos Aires, so dress as you would in a city at home. Argentinean men always wear a coat in Buenos Aires, even in mid-summer. You may wear slacks and sports jackets if you like. Light suits are correct in summer. Take a topcoat and a heavier coat in winter. Dinner clothes if you plan to go out much. Keep in mind that the further south you go in Argentina the colder it gets; the further north the warmer.
LOCATION . . . An inland country, Paraguay is crowded between Argentina, Brazil and Bolivia in central South America.
POPULATION... Estimated 1,270,000 in 1948, the population approximates that of Baltimore and Rochester, New York combined.
SIZE ... About 150,500 square miles, slightly bigger than Montana.
CAPITAL. .. Asuncion, a city of about 150,000, roughly the size of Bridgeport, Connecticut. GOVERNMENT ... A republic with a President, Congress and Council of State.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Panair do Brasil—334 hours flying time from Rio de Janeiro. By ship from New York, about 19 days to Buenos Aires, then 4 days by river steamer.
ASUNCION
Paraguay is off the beaten track a bit. It is not for the tourist who wants to find everything comparable to things at home. But it is definitely meant for those who like the colorful, the picturesque and a spot not overrun by tourists.
Asuncion, the capital, is a port on a river in which the native women wash their clothes and beat them on stones. Although the city of Asuncion has no running water, the Gran Hotel del Paraguay has its own wells and the water runs hot and cold in its new bathrooms. This old building was once the residence of Lopez, paramour of Eliza Lynch who practically held court in the place. The murals in the hotel dining room which was once her private theatre are strange and provocative. There are two other hotels in the city. The Asuncion Palace which is new and the Colonial which is old.
There is a new modern bank building in the city which stands like a white symbol. The streets in front of it are thronged with natives on donkeys. A familiar sight are shawl-wrapped Indian women carrying black umbrellas riding side saddle on donkeys. The older buildings have more than a touch of the Italian about them for the elder Lopez imported an Italian architect who designed the palace, the Pantheon which is modeled on Napoleon’s tomb. It contains the coffins of Lopez and two Paraguayan unknown soldiers. The shopping center is Calle Palma where merchandise brought by steamer from Buenos Aires is for sale.
The ladies of Asuncion go hatless, wear white gloves, bags and shoes and gather for tea each afternoon at one of the tea rooms which dot all South America. There is an excellent restaurant, the Richmond Terraza overlooking the bay on the Paraguay river. And you should try a cocktail made of cana, native rum. There are some fine private clubs for which you will need a card. The Club Centenario and the Club Union are the best.
Paraguay lace is world famous and it is made chiefly in the village of Itaugua. This lace is sold at hotels in Asuncion and at the airport, but if you want to get really beautiful lace and really low prices visit the village yourself and buy directly from the women who make it.
The only city outside of the capital which caters to tourists is San Bernardino on a lake about two hours away by car. The lake is shallow and is so easily heated by the summer sun that it is too hot to bathe in. There are two hotels, Hotel del Lago and Hotel del Play a. And a really swank club: Club Nautico San Bernardino.
Trinidad, a suburb of Asuncion contains the Botanical Gardens, one of the most beautiful parks in the Americas. There are many small towns and villages within just a few miles of the capital which may be reached by car or bus which give the tourist a colorful and rewarding picture of Chaco life. This country is not for everyone, not for people who must have the last word in comfort, but it is interesting, old world and may be right for you.
[121]