I
I
I
LUXEMBOURG
WEATHER IN BRUSSELS—				Lat. N50°50' (110 miles NW of Luxembourg)—							Alt. 1200'	
	JAN.	FEB.	MAR. APR.		MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV.							DEC.
i Low	30°	33°	35°	40°	46°	52°	55°	55°	52°	44°	38°	33°
Temp. < High	39°	43°	49°	57°	64°	70°	73°	72°	67°	56°	48°	42°
/ Average	35°	38°	42°	49°	55°	61°	64°	64°	60°	50°	43°	38°
Days of Rainfall	15	15	15	16	16	17	16	16	16	17	18	16
LOCATION . . . Crowded between Belgium and Germany, Luxembourg on the south borders France. The city of Luxembourg is about 175 air miles northeast of Paris, 110 air miles southeast of Brussels.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This tiny duchy is a mixture of Graustark, all the Shubert operettas you ever saw and a touch of opera bouffe. Superimposed on this is Perle Mesta, our Minister to Luxembourg. So all in all it is well worth a visit.
POPULATION ... Estimated 292,000, less than half the population of Houston, Texas.
SIZE ... 999 square miles, five-sixths the size of Rhode Island.
CAPITAL ... Luxembourg, with a population of 61,451, half the size of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
GOVERNMENT ... An independent Grand Duchy, governed by a Chamber of Deputies, elected by universal suffrage.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper to Paris (13V3 hours), or Brussels (15^ hours). Then only a short ride by train or car; from Brussels, 3 fast trains daily on the Brussels-Switzerland line; from Paris, 4 fast trains on the Paris-Germany line.
In the city of Luxembourg there are some good hotels, including the Grand Brasseur, the Alfa, the Continental, the Cravat and the Kons. Rates about $5 double with bath.
The city itself is fascinating with ruined palaces, fortresses, cathedrals in Gothic and Renaissance periods. Here is the cemetery where General George Patton is buried. Just a few miles to the north is Ardennes where the Battle of the Bulge made victory.
Food is magnificent and very inexpensive in Luxembourg. You can get an enormous meal for about a dollar. Try the Schintgen. Be sure to go to restaurant Stug where the hors d’oeuvres are astonishing. The Wampach is good, too. Coffee and cigarettes are high here, but everything else is reasonable. Specialties in the food line include Ardennes ham, jellied suckling pig, veal glace in piecrust, crawfish and magnificent pastries which are known all over the continent. The wines are fine, too, Particularly a native, sparkling Moselle. Black currant wine is native, too. Absinthe, oddly enough, is legal here. Beer is good and cheap.
The northern section of Luxembourg is wild and rugged. Ruins of fortresses and castles brood on craigs. There are wide rivers in which fish abound, and there are deep ravines. The middle land is farm land rolling and smiling, and to the south is the vineyard country. There are mines and steel works in the Southwest.
There aren’t many night clubs in the Duchy. But in the city of Luxembourg try the Cameo or Charlie's. Taxis are plentiful, but come high. Laundry is good.
When sightseeing, take a look at the cathedral built in 1618, the Pont du Chateau, the Three Towers and the Pont Adolphe Bridge which has one of the most famous stone arches in all Europe. The Passerelas viaduct connects the modern section of the city near the railroad terminal with the center of the city which is built on rocks. In the inner part of the upper town is the Grand Ducal Palace, a Spanish Renaissance building.
Trips outside of the city of Luxembourg should include Mondorf les Bains, the spa of the Duchy. The wine cellars in the town of Remich are interesting and if you are around at Easter time the local wine fair at Grevenmacher is worth seeing. Visit the town of Echternach and see the old Benedictine Abbey founded by St. Willibrod. Here on Whit Tuesday there is an annual dancing procession which is a tourist attraction for all the continent.
Wild boar hunting and deer stalking are two popular winter sports. And there are cyclists everywhere. The rivers are a paradise for canoers. There is a new 18-hole golf course near the capital. The monetary unit is the Belgian and Luxembourg franc which is worth about two cents. Belgian francs are accepted in the Duchy but Luxembourg francs are not accepted in Belgium. Best time of year to visit Luxembourg is May through September.
Vineyards cover these hills above the Moselle River and the town of Wor-meldange, Luxembourg, one of the centers of the wine industry.
Near the town of Clerff, Luxembourg, is this Benedictine Monastery situated on a hill among forests and cultivated fields.
[30]