NEW HORIZONS
TURKEY (Cont.)
strawberry, tangerine, etc., are some of the flavors. Turkish vermouth, brandy and gin are good, too. Raki (pronounced-“Rocky”) is a native drink distilled from the grape. Whiskey and imported brandies are obtainable but expensive.
LANGUAGE . . . English is spoken in the shops and hotels and in most of the restaurants.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The Admiral Bristol Hospital in Istanbul is modern and staffed with English-speaking doctors. There are many English-speaking doctors available. Consult your hotel if necessary.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are several good motion picture theatres in Istanbul and three in Ankara. First run American films and the best of European films are shown.
MUSIC . . . There is a symphony orchestra which gives concerts of the works of Turkish composers as well as the works of the great masters. There is opera and ballet, too. Radio Istanbul and Radio Ankara have symphony and philharmonic orchestras whose concerts are open to the public by invitation.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Taksim Casino, Park Hotel, the new Kervansaray Pavilion and the Konak Hotel have excellent orchestras and floor shows. In Ankara the top night club is Sureyya's (open in winter only).
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE... is at Beyoglu-Galatasaray, Yeni Carsi No. 20 (Tel. 40522 and 41219).
RELIGION . . . Turkey is a Moslem country, but there are many Christian churches.
RESTAURANTS . . . Wonderful Turkish food may be had at Abdullah Efendi, Misir Qarsis (known to travelers as the Spice Bazaar, and very popular) and Konyali for luncheon or dinner. Pandel/i Kollaro's for luncheon only, (¿inar is near the airport and has an American bar right on the beach. While sightseeing up the Bosporus, stop at Canli Balik where you pick your fish out of a pool and have it cooked right before your eyes. Lebon and Markiz are excellent for tea, ice cream and pastries. In Ankara the place is Karpitch.
STORES AND SHOPS . . . The main shopping area is all along the main street in the European section of Istanbul. Most shops are open six days a week (except Sunday) from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. For travelers the best and favorite shopping for all Turkish novelties is in the famous bazaars in the old section of Istanbul (known as Stamboul).
SIGHTSEEING IN AND NEAR ISTANBUL.. You will want to see St. Sofia, considered by architects as one of the wonders of the world, the Fountain of Sultan Ahmed III, the Seraglio Gate, the Tomb of Selim II, the various ancient mosques including the Beyazit Mosque, and the Sehzade Mosque. Visit the tombs of Sultan Suleyman and Roxelana, the Adrianople Gate and the Byzantine Walls. The Golden Gate and the Seven-Towers Castle along the outer walls. Walk through Topkapu Palace by St. Sophia, the residence of the Turkish Sultans and see the harem quarters, the summer terrace overlooking the joining of the Golden Horn, the Bosporus and the Sea of Marmara, the Audience Chamber. Visit some of the fascinating and fabulous bazaars. There are countless other things to see in this age-old city; and if you wander around, you will find them for yourself. The wonderfully elaborate Byzantine architecture, the mosques, the minarets are so different from anything in the western world that you will be fascinated. You will want to ferry across the Bosporus into Asia. Take a motor tour of Scutari driving to the summit of Camlica Hill where you get a magnificent view of the city of Istanbul, the shores of the Bosporus, the harbor entrance and the Sea of Marmara. Take a ferry trip along the European and Anatolian shores of the Bosporus, lined with palaces and villas. You will pass two ancient Turkish castles, dating back to the fifteenth century. Take a day’s trip to Prinkipo one of the Princes Islands in the eastern part of the Sea of Marmara where fashionable Turkish society summers. There is an excellent hotel near the sea with wonderful food. You may tour the island by carriage, visit the monastery of St. George. There is a yacht club and casino at Yurukali Beach.
bursa . . . From Istanbul you go by ferry to the health resort of Yalova and- hence to Bursa at the foot of Mount Olympus where the winter sports are. There is a good hotel at Bursa.
Incidentally Bursa silks are world famous. If you go to Southern Turkey, visit Antalya on the Mediterranean, a harbor with its town rising high from the sea. All of Turkey is colorful and fascinatingly rich in Byzantine architecture and most colorful.'
OTHER sightseeing . . . Turkey is rich with the history of Christianity. Mount Ararat is the spot where Noah’s Ark came to rest. It was in the city of Iznik (39 miles northeast of Bursa) that the Iznik Council formulated the creed of Christianity. A tour of the Christian sites should include Antakya, the birth place of St. Paul and St. Luke. Ayasolog where St. Paul lived and preached. In fact, the open-air theatre at the foot of Mount Pion which seated 25,000 still stands. The sanctuary of the Virgip Mary is at Panhagia Kapu behind Mount Koressas. In the Basilica of Justinius here, lies the tomb of St. John the Evangelist. At Izmir on the west coast you will see the remains of the amphitheatre which saw the martyrdom of St. Polycarp. Seventy miles from Izmir are the ruins of Pergamum one of the seven cities of the Revelation of St. John the Divine. Information on trips to these biblical centers may be had from the Turkish Information Bureau in New York.
ankara . . . You mayfly from Istanbul to Ankara, seat of the Turkish Government in two hours or go by train overnight. The Ankara Palace Hotel is excellent, as is the Yuksel Palace Hotel (a favorite with Americans) which has an American-type bar. Be sure to take the trip to the fortress in time to watch the sunset at Akkale. See the Ahi Elvan Mosque, the Arslanhane Mosque, the Roman Aqueduct, the Orman Ciftligi (the model farm founded by Ataturk). You will see the government buildings indicative of Turkey, the Presidential residence at Cankaya and other buildings and monuments of interest. Visit the Turkish National Theatre, dine at Karpitch. Visit the tomb of Ataturk (founder and first president of the modern Turkish republic— very important to Turks) and the Ethnological Museum.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . There is horse racing, soccer, wrestling, boxing, track meets, basket ball and tennis.
SPORTS . . . Swimming, sailing and fishing are excellent in the waters of the Bosporus, Aegean Sea, the Black Sea, and the Sea of Marmara. Hunting wild boar is a favorite national sport. Horseback riding can be arranged, the Jockey Clubs of Istanbul and Ankara may be helpful. Winter sports including sledding', skiing at Istanbul and Ankara and the famous slopes of Bursa at the foot of Mount Olympus.
THEATRES . . . There are several theatres in Istanbul and Ankara where plays in Turkish are produced. Foreign companies visiting Turkey perform English and French plays.
TIME.. .Turkish time is seven hours ahead of Eastern Standard Time. Rail and air schedules are based on the 24-hour day.
TIPPING . . . Tip about ten per cent in restaurants and to taxi drivers. There is a fixed tariff for porters at railway stations, airports and docks. Hotel personnel should be tipped according to services rendered. Taxis should be paid twice the amount shown on the meter, plus ten per cent for tip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are taxis, buses, trolleys and horse-drawn carriages in Istanbul. There is also, in Istanbul, a two-mile underground, or subway, connecting Galata with the Pera section which is on a much higher level. There are ferries ip Istanbul linking the European side of the Bosporus with thp Asiatic. The trip takes about fifteen minutes.
WATER . . . Water is safe to drink. But there are many fine table and mineral waters if you insist.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Hand-made embroideries, bed jackets of silky mohair, rugs and carpets, Bursa silks, silverware, ceramics, hand-carved meerschaum pipes, attar of roses and other perfumes, wonderful candies, silver and gold filigree work, handmade linen handkerchiefs. Don’t pay first price asked.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In Istanbul dress as you would in New York or any other large city. You will need light weight clothes in the summer, warm clothes in winter. In Ankara you will need warmer clothes in winter than you do in New York or Istanbul. Beach clothes are essential for both men and women. A raincoat, a light topcoat are helps, too. Men will need sports jackets and slacks, medium weight suits for spring and winter and light suits for summer. Evening or dinner clothes too.
[59]