NEW HORIZONS
HAITI (Cont.)
enough to satisfy your curiosity. And you will hear the drums wherever you are.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . There are none really, unless you include watching a Voodoo dance. And there is cockfighting, of course. The national game is soccer.
SPORTS . . . Tennis, golf, swimming; horseback riding, fishing which is particularly fine are available. At the Thorland Club there is a swimming pool and a beach and several tennis courts. Spear fishing is a popular native sport and you can hire boats and an instructor if you wish.
THEATRES . . . Theatre de Verdure.
TIME . . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time. TIPPING . .. The usual ten to fifteen per cent.
TOURIST TAXES . .. See under customs requirements. TRANSPORTATION ... You can hire a car complete with
chauffeur for about $20 a day. Or you can take your choice of the “personalized” ground tours offered. You may also fly to the Citadelle about a 45-minute flight from the capital. Incidentally, if you hire a car, the chauffeur usually pays his own expenses.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Mahogany products, of course. There are beautiful bowls, figures and furniture. Sisal products are native, too. Haitian rum is excellent and cheap and, of course, a Voodoo trophy if you can find an authentic one. Tortoise shell combs and jewelry are fine here. Hand-made laces and embroideries are particularly beautiful.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Light summer clothing similar to that worn in Miami is needed. But for the hills you’ll need a topcoat and a sweater, or two. For men, cotton or linen suits, slacks, a lightweight topcoat and a sweater. Evening clothes only if you are entertained by the Diplomatic set.
Primitive art exhibitions by native Haitians have created a great deal of interest in art circles in recent years. Many of these works are available for purchase.
Although there is complete freedom of religious worship, the Catholic Church enjoys a special position in Haiti. Above, the Cathedral in Port-au-Prince.
Sisal goods are among the native products that make useful souvenirs of a trip to Haiti.
Friendly village people show how corn is ground, one of the interesting ancient customs of the Haitians.
Peasant women on their way to market are one of the colorful sights around Port-au-Prince.
[83]