NEW HORIZONS
MEXICO (Cont.)
pendence Day; October 12th, Columbus Day; November 1st and 2nd, All Saints and All Souls Days, the days of the dead; November 20th, Anniversary of the Revolution of 1910; December 12th, Guadalupe Day; December 16th to 25th, the Posadas celebrate Christmas.
CIGARETTES, PIPES, TOBACCO , ,. Pipe tobacco is available in both English and American blends. Cigars, made in Mexico (including Coronas) are both good and cheap. Mexican cigarettes are good and cheap. American made cigarettes are available but expensive.
CLIMATE.. . Mexico City has a very high altitude and a wonderful climate. Because of the altitude it is essential to take things slowly to avoid over-fatigue. There are no sharply defined seasons, but there is a rainy season from June until October. Mornings are invariably sunny even during the rainy season. Mexico City claims to have more sunshine than any other large city in the world.
CLUBS,.. American Club, British, Lions’ Club, University, Women’s International, American Legion, French Club, Rotary Club, Y.M.C.A., Y.M.H.A. For country and golf clubs, see
SPORTS
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS Tipping is very general, 10 to 20 per cent of the bill is correct. Taxi drivers are seldom tipped. Bargaining is accepted practice in the markets and in small shops. The big stores are run like those at home with a one-price policy. Luncheon, served from one to three, is the big meal of the day. Mexican working days run from 9 to 1 and 3 to 9. Mexicans prefer a slight formal bow to a handshake. Drunks are regarded with intolerance. Women in slacks and shorts are not permitted on the streets of Mexico City. Men should not remove their coats or ties. Women, unless they are in the heart of the city, should not be unescorted. Don’t take pictures of people without asking permission. Don’t compare Mexico City with your home town. Everyone plays the national lottery but it is not considered gambling. Natives call Mexico City, merely “Mexico.”
COMMUNICATIONS ... You may call the United States on the Mexican Telephone Company. Rates approximately 35.00 pesos for three minutes. There are phone and cable facilities in all large centers. Western Union has offices in all large cities. Air-mail to the United States costs 25 centavos for each sixth of an ounce.
CURRENCY . . . xhe Mexican unit is the peso, designated by the dollar sign. The United States dollar is worth 8.65 pesos at the present time.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Tourists are permitted to bring in anything for personal use duty-free. Two and one-half cartons of cigarettes permitted. Evidence of citizenship should be carried. For work or to do business, you must have a permit from the Mexican Consulate. If you have valuable articles of foreign make, cameras, etc., register them with the U. S. Customs before leaving the United States. 12 rolls of film, no liquor allowed duty free.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Tourist card, obtainable from Mexican Consulate in the United States or Mexican Tourist Commissions. Costs $3.00, and is good for three months. Birth certificate or passport or some proof of citizenship is required. Vaccination certificate, signed by United States physician, necessary for return into the United States.
FOOD . . . Tamales are, of course, known to everyone, but equally famous is mole de guajolote, turkey with a rich sauce. Tacos and enchiladas are made of meat or chicken rolled in tortillas (maize pancakes) and are delicious. Mexico abounds in fruits and vegetables. Indian dishes are found all over Mexico. Chile, mole, tostadas (toasted fried tortillas with chicken, beans and lettuce) are all Indian and good. Mexican beans (frijoles) appear in various dishes. Red snapper, Vera Cruz style, is a famous fish dish, sauteed with pimentos and spices. Fruits include a vast assortment of tropical types—avocados, bananas, pineapples, zapotes, pomegranates, guavas, limes and mangos de Manila which are delicious. Many varieties of the above are unknown at home. Don’t eat fruit unless you peel it yourself, and avoid raw vegetables. Try higos rebanados (delicious fresh sliced figs), guacamole (a mashed avocado salad) and of course,
papaya which you may or may not like. In Mexico City you can get any type of food you want. Milk for children . . . Meal times are later than in the United States. Luncheon is the main meal, served between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. Dinner is late in the evening and light.
GAMBLING . .. There is horse racing at the Hipodromo de las Americas every Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, from October to June. Pari-mutuels. Also pari-mutuels at Jai Alai games. Betting on cockfights outside of Federal District.
LANGUAGE . . . The tourist will have no trouble getting along in English; all the stores and hotels have English-speaking employees. Almost anywhere the tourist goes he will find English spoken.
XAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . .
Big hotels have their own laundry and dry cleaning facilities. It is safer to stick to them.
LIQUOR . . , Tequila and pulque are native drinks. Tequila, distilled mainly in Jalisco, is potent and unexpected. Tourists should be cautious. Pulque is also potent and takes getting used to. Mezcal is still another native potion which is far from mild. Regular brands of all whiskies are obtainable. Mexican beer is famous. Carta Blanca, Saturno, Bohemia are all good. Martell and Hennessey, favored brandies, are available but more expensive than in the United States.
MEDICAL FACILITIES.. .English-speaking and American trained doctors and dentists available. There is an American-British hospital (Calz. M. Escobedo 628), a French hospital and many Mexican institutions. If you need a doctor, call the American hospital and ask them to recommend one.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Mexican movie industry makes its own pictures, has its own stars. Many theatres in Mexico City feature United States and European films. There are at least fifteen big movie houses.
MUSIC . .. The concert season is July and August. Most fashionable symphony orchestra is conducted by Carlos Chavez. Concerts are held in the Fine Arts Palace. Orchestras of the National Conservatory of Music, and National University, give concerts throughout the year.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . .. There are numerous clubs. Among them are Capri, Juarez 79, good dancing and floor show; the Leda, Dr. Vertiz 118, much liked by Mexicans; El Patio, Atenas No. 9, Latin American floor show; Paris, in the Hotel Reforma, is famous; Versailles in the Hotel Del Prado is excellent. Most of the top hotels have night clubs. For colorful, out-of-the-way spots, take a guide. Don’t try to experiment on your own.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . CMA, Avenida Juarez No. 82 (Tel. 180870) are agents for Pan American.
RELIGION . . . Mexico is, of course, a Catholic country. Some of the cathedrals are world famous and should be visited. There are also Adventist, Baptist, Episcopal, Methodist and Presbyterian churches, and a synagogue.
RESTAURANTS . . . Every possible type of food is to be found in Mexican restaurants. A la carte is, of course, more expensive. You choose your restaurants here, as you do at home, by what you want to spend. Here are some of the leading places: Ambassadeurs, Paseo de la Reforma 12 (swank and high priced); Prendes, 16 de Septiembre 12 (Good European food, moderate); Cadillac, Melchor Ocampo 351 (Franco-Mexican, moderate, good); Manolo's, Lopez 1 (Moderate, good); Lady Baltimore, Ave. Madero 5 (Good for breakfast); Ritz Hotel (moderate, good); Cafe de Tacuba, Tacuba 28 (Mexican national dishes, moderate); Henri, Lopez 8 (French and good, a la carte); Jena, Morelos 110 (Deservedly famous, a la carte, expensive); Longchamps, Paris 24 (Southern style ham and eggs if you’re homesick, moderate); Paolo, Juarez 79 (Italian specialties, expensive, good); Hotel Maria Cristina dining room, a gourmet’s delight. Sanborns, Madero 4 (United States dishes and Mexican, too). All the top hotels have excellent cosmopolitan restaurants. Mexico City has many bars. Here are a few favorites: Bar 1-2-3, Liverpool 123; El Colmenar, Ejido y Eliseo; Regis, Juarez 88. Popular with Americans; Tony's Bar, in the Hotel Reforma. Montenegro and Nicte-Ha in Hotel Del Prado.
[103]