plumage or articles made with such plumage. Your Custom House will be glad to help you with any questions.
Special Rules on “Swing-Back” Trips
A special situation exists along United States borders. If you find your route through Latin America is going to involve a “swing-back” into the United States, including Puerto Rico, consult your nearest customs officer about its effect on your exemptions. If you fail to meet certain requirements at this “swing-back” you may lose your exemptions.
Here are Some Tips to Save You Time and Money:
1.	Get a sales slip, purchase order or receipt for everything you buy abroad.
2.	Keep a list of articles to be declared.
3.	Pack these articles together, if possible.
Since your written declaration must be made at the first United States Customs port reached on your return, be sure to get the list into the hands of your purser well ahead of your arrival.
What Will the Weather he Like?
Naturally, the weather is one of your most practical concerns in planning your trip, because your comfort and much of your fun depend on having good weather.
That’s why you’ll find a chart showing average daily temperature highs and lows and average number of days with rainfall, at the beginning of each section in this book, and a paragraph under the heading of “Climate” for each country.
Temperature figures in themselves mean little to most of us, but we do have a very definite impression of normal or average weather where we live or in locations we visit frequently.
The chart at right gives average temperatures in various cities in the United States, for each month of the year; and by comparing these figures with the charts for the various countries, you can get a general impression of what kind of weather to expect.
First, a few general observations. Of course, in the Southern Hemisphere, the seasons are the reverse of ours, making our winter an ideal time to visit many of the countries below the equator. Most islands of the West Indies (where you’ll find only a few degrees’ variation between summer and winter temperatures) are ideal for vacationing almost any month of the year. Many of the cities you will visit in various parts of the world are either seaports or near large bodies of water, which tend to moderate the weather and reduce extremes between daily highs and lows or day and night temperatures. In very warm areas, such as Bolivia or Ecuador on the equator, however, inland cities in the mountains are the most comfortable places. It is about five degrees cooler for every 1,500 feet of altitude than it is at sea level. The altitude of principal cities is given in this book. In general, cities with daily variations of not more than 12° are more comfortable than localities with abrupt changes between day and night readings.
Latitude, too, is an important determining factor in climate, and in the weather chart for each country you will find the latitude of the principal city given. In the chart at right, next to each United States city, the latitude and altitude are given for comparison.
With allowances for altitude and proximity to the ocean, areas of similar latitude north or south have
similar climates. Compare New Zealand and the west coast of the United States which are about the same distance from the equator. Note that Mexico City on about the same latitude as Honolulu is slightly cooler, with greater variation between lows and highs because of the altitude and distance from the ocean.
As another guidepost, keep in mind that climatologists consider 68° the ideal temperature for human comfort, or 60° if you are engaged in active sports.
Now, a look at the charts will show you, for example, that Cape Town in the Union of South Africa in June (the coolest month) is like May in Chicago, and that the summer weather there (December to February) is very near the ideal 68°. The weather in Western Europe is something like the weather in Western United States; compare London and Seattle.
In the South Pacific, summer temperatures in Sydney, Australia (December to February) are similar to summer temperatures in Portland, Maine. Both summer and winter temperatures in the southern parts of Italy and Spain are about the same as in South Carolina.
A comparison of days of rainfall on the chart below with the rainfall figures for each country will also help give you a preview of your vacation weather. If there is as much as .01 of an inch of precipitation, the meteorologists call it a day with rain. But if the rain occurs in a month when temperatures are warm, you can usually expect mere showers in an otherwise pleasant, sunny day. If the rainy day occurs during a cold weather month, however, the whole day is more likely to be gloomy. With temperatures below freezing, the precipitation is probably snow or sleet.
Even though weather is a logical sequence of natural causes, there’s no foretelling unseasonable weather or record-setting temperatures. So don’t expect the weather you experience on your vacation to conform with monthly averages every time. But wherever it’s convenient why not pack as much pleasure as possible into your trip and plan to visit a country when it’s at its best weather-wise? If you want to delve further into the fascinating subject of the weather, get a copy of “Weather Around the World”,by I. R. Tannehill, chief forecaster of the U. S. Weather Bureau and published by Princeton University Press.
[iv]