INDIA
WEATHER IN CALCUTTA—Lat. 22°30'—Alt. 85'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
( Low	56°	60°	69°	76°	78°	79°	79°	79°	78°	75°	65°	56‘
Temp. < High	77°	82°	91°	95°	95°	91°	89°	88°	88°	87°	82°	77'
1 Average	67°	71°	80°	86°	87°	85°	84°	84°	83°	81°	74°	67'
Days of Rainfall	1	2	2	3	7	13	18	18	13	6	1	0
LOCATION ... The Republic of India is comprised of many provinces and former Princely states which form the major area of the huge sub-continent of India, separated from the rest of Asia by the great Himalayan Range.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This is a colorful, strange country undergoing what amounts to a revolution in its politics and way of life. Its fabulous temples, magnificent mosques, exotic bazaars and shops, its world-famous Taj Mahal are in themselves reason enough to go to this enormous sub-continent. Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi, and the pink city of Jaipur are all open to tourists, and this strange far-off land is a fascinating and amazing place to visit. The Indian Government is eager to have the Western world know more about the country.
POPULATION... Estimated at 360,000,000, considerably more than twice thè population of the United States.
SIZE... 1,246,880 square miles, a little more than half the area of the United States.
CAPITAL . . . New Delhi officially—the new part of Delhi, a city slightly over a half million in population, the size of Minneapolis.
GOVERNMENT . . . Republic framework with President and congress. The cabinet consists of a Prime Minister and 16 colleagues.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, through-plane service from New York via London and Istanbul to Delhi, about 45 hours (elapsed time); 3 hours, 20 minutes longer to Calcutta. By ship, 25 to 45 days.
CALCUTTA
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are three good hotels in Calcutta. The Great Eastern, Spence's and Grand. All have orchestras, bars and restaurants which are recommended. Rates are about $7 single, $12 double including three meals and morning and afternoon tea.
ARTS .. . Some of the outstanding museums are the Indian Museum, Shantiniketan, University of late poet—Rabindranath Tagore.
BALLET . .. The Indian classical dances are very rhythmic. The purest expression is found in the Bharata School of Dancing (Bharata Natyam). This is not a dance-drama. The Indian ballet is represented in three dance forms, the Kathakali, the Kathak and Manipuri. Some of the well-known troupes are the Indian National theatres, the Chitra Players and the students of Visva Bharati and the Kalakshetra. The folk ballet is an entirely different group.
BANKS . . . There are many banks in Calcutta: the National City Bank of New York, the Bank of England, Netherlands Trading Society, Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation, Ltd., Commercial Bank of Calcutta, to name a few. There is a foreign exchange booth at Dum Dum Airport, open 24 hours a day, and traveler’s checks may be either purchased or cashed at the American Express or Thomas Cook.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Durga Pooja (October), Holi (Spring festival), Dusserah (September to October), Diwali (The festival of Lamps, October), Muharram (Moslem festival), Republic Day celebration (January 26).
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . .. Cigarettes of Indian and British makes are plentiful. You may take in 100 American cigarettes. See under customs.
CLIMATE . . . India has no uniform climate. In Calcutta, days during the months of November to early February have moderate humidity, but temperature ranging seldom above the 80’s. Nights during these months will range from 60° down to 45° in the extreme. There is a radical change in upper temperatures
in March, and Calcutta has virtually no spring or fall. It is either summer here or it is winter, from the standpoint of temperature. Summer weather (April 1 to November 1) is quite hot, and in June and July the temperatures often go higher than the averages shown in the chart above. The rainy season is from about June 15 through October, with little rain during the latter month.
CLUBS . . . Rotary Club: members of the Rotary International of U. S. A. can take part in the activities of the Rotary Club here as guest members. There is an active Chamber of Commerce which many foreign businessmen like to visit, and a Junior Chamber of Commerce. Private clubs include the Calcutta Club and American Club (the name of a body but not of a location), which meets each Tuesday at one of the night clubs and is composed of the majority of the American community.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Visitors should take off their shoes or sandals before entering an Indian temple. When in a temple behave as you would in your own religious house. Evidence no shock or disapproval or contempt for what you see, however strange to you aspects of Indian religious ceremonies might appear. And be careful not to injure any of the temple pigeons.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Inter-city phone calls may be made in the larger cities, as can radio telephone calls to the United States. Telegrams may be sent from the larger cities.
CURRENCY . .. The monetary unit is the rupee, worth about 21 cents.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ... A passport is required. A visa is now required except for persons with confirmed reservations for departure within 72 hours. Tourists enjoy a great many privileges which are otherwise not accorded to visitors. Smallpox and in many cases yellow fever, cholera and plague inoculations are advisable. Tourists in transit through India within 15 days are not required to register with the Security Police upon arrival. Insofar as Calcutta is concerned, passengers may carry liquor amongst their personal effects. It is
[162]