[137]
NEW HORIZONS
VENEZUELA (Cont.)
SPORTS . . . Golf at country club and Valle Arriba and at Blandin, five miles out of town, horseback riding very popular, mounts easily had in Caracas and elsewhere. Excellent swimming pools at such clubs as the Country, Florida,Paraíso, Royal Casino, Valle Arriba (with cards). Good salt-water fishing along the Caribbean Coast, and in and near some of the island ports, where small boats or launches may be hired. The inland lakes, like Lake Valencia, have been stocked by the government. The larger rivers have plenty of dangerous, vicious fish such as the caribe, but offer little for the sportsman. Plenty of shooting, wild pigeon, waterfowl, turkey and quail may be easily had within a day or two excursions. Deer and other big game in the Guiana highlands. Good duck shooting towards the coast.
THEATRES . . . Teatro Municipal and Teatro Nacional are the theatres. Plays in Spanish, opera in various languages.
TIME . . . One half hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING.. .Tip about fifteen per cent to waiters, porters, etc.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Bs 10 to enter the country, Bs 2 to leave.
TRANSPORTATION .. . Good taxi service in Caracas.
Lineas A. R.C. is the leading Bus Company, and there are bus services over the Andean Highway to the Colombian border, also a bus line from Caracas to Maracaibo and to Ciudad Bolivar.
WATER . . . Bottled, purified water is served in all parts of Caracas. In the interior one should be more careful.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Perhaps the best place in Venezuela for tourist shopping is the island of Margarita. Here are pearls and a variety of mother-of-pearl articles, native hats, sandals, the fine Venezuelan hammock (those coming from Barquisimeto are the best), and shawls. Venezuelan laces and embroideries are famous. The country imports almost all of its standard merchandise, and while Caracas shops are finely stocked, prices are high.
For other examples of native merchandise, souvenirs and handcrafts, see the permanent exhibit of all types of goods made in the country at Puente Hierro in Caracas.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Caracas calls for summer clothes (day) all year ’round, but one needs a topcoat. Fur jackets can be worn in the evenings. Along the coast, and on the Llanos in the Orinoco region tropical clothing. Coldest months are late December, January and the first part of February, when heavier clothes are sometimes needed. This is also the dry season.
In Venezuela as in other South American cities the name of Simon Bolivar becomes a very familiar one to tourists. The above statue of the hero of Independence is in Plaza Bolivar in Caracas.
The excellent Hotel Avila will be your headquarters for vacationing in and around Venezuela’s fabulous capital city, Caracas.
Even stopovers at the airports can be pleasant experiences. Below, new friends enjoy refreshments on the terminal restaurant patio while a Pan American Clipper refuels in the background.