NEW HORIZONS
DENMARK (Cont.)
tours to various points of interest are available in Copenhagen.
aarhus . . . Denmark’s second largest city is Aarhus. Located on the Jutland peninsula. The Town Hall is a striking example of ultra-modern architecture. In contrast there is a lovely cathedral that is part Romanesque and part Gothic. The University is beautifully situated in an extensive park. The open-air museum is very interesting. The deer parks and wood of Riiskov preserves are wonderful. The leading hotel in Aarhus is the Royal, but the Ritz and Regina are both up-to-date. Thirty-one miles from Aarhus is Silkeborg, resort center of the Jutland region. In the heart of the lake district, Silkeborg is a charming little town. The sailing is great and fishing is also very popular. Swim on lovely beaches and travel through the crystal lakes in shiny little lake steamers. The good hotel in Silkeborg is the Dania. The rates average around a dollar a day.
The Island of Fyn is the second largest in Denmark. It is the Fairy Tales Land of Hans Christian Andersen. You’ll be enchanted by the quaint city of Odense, capital of the region. Andersen was born here and his house has become a museum, open to the public daily. The thirteenth Gentury Gothic church is one of the most delightful in Denmark. See the Fyn Village, an open-air museum of Danish peasant life. It looksdike something out of Andersen. The zoo is also very interesting. Excursions can be made among the lovely rolling hills. Quaint thatched farm houses and picture-book scenery abound. The Grand Hotel in Odense is superb.
Traveling to the south of Fyn you’ll come to the lovely old town of Svendborg. Twisting streets and old houses; many beautiful private castles in this region. Good swimming, boating, and fishing. The Danish Tourist Association makes a feature of Fairy Tale Tours through the entire region. The cost is reasonable and well worth it.
aalborg ... is a very active city in the north of Jutland. Don’t miss Jens Bang’s House, one of the most beautifully preserved Renaissance buildings in Denmark. The night life of Aalborg is very gay. The Ritz Safari and Kilden restaurants are known all over Denmark. There is a good golf course, fine fishing and other excellent sports facilities in Aalborg. Stay at the Phonix.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer is the national sport in Denmark. Racing and trotting meets are also very popular. Bicycle racing and tennis matches are great seasonal favorites, too. See the local papers for more information on these events.
SPORTS . . . Denmark offers a large variety of active sports. In the capital itself there are excellent bridle paths and saddle horses, good tennis courts and swimming facilities. The best stables are at Dyrehaven Park. The Danes love to sail. The yachting and sailing in Danish waters is excellent. Golf is popu-
lar in larger centers and resort areas. Rungsted is the best course near Copenhagen. The links and club house are open to tourists. There are nine or ten other topnotch courses in the country. Excellent sea and fresh-water fishing can be done all over Denmark. International tuna fish competitions in August at Elsinore. Hunting and trapping is fine in Jutland. Guides and equipment are available. Hikers and cyclists will delight in the beautiful rolling hills of Denmark. Rowing is popular both as a spectator and active sport.
THEATRES . . . Copenhagen is a great theatre town. The programs of the Royal Theatre that include ballet and opera will interest the tourist who is unfamiliar with the Danish language. During the summer there are open air performances all over Denmark, including the Hamlet performance for a few weeks at Kronborg Castle in Elsinore. Consult the National Travel Association for information on current programs.
Tivoli and Dyrehavsbakken are great big amusement parks. There are outdoor comedy theatres, side shows, animal circuses, band concerts and pantomime to name but a few of the attractions at these mammoth fun fairs.
TIME ... Six hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time. Denmark uses the 24-hour clock (12:01 to 24.00 is p.m.)
TIPPING . . . All hotels and restaurants add a fifteen percent service charge to your bill. This is sufficient. Tip 15 percent if it is not added. The same rule applies to taxis, barbers, etc.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis, buses and trolley cars are plentiful in Copenhagen. There are good trains and cross-country buses for traveling in Denmark. Little steamers take you from island to island. The fares are reasonable.
WATER . . . The water is safe to drink all over Denmark.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Gorgeous furs, silver and Royal Copenhagen porcelain china are your best buys. The headquarters of Georg Jensen is in Copenhagen. Also good and less expensive for silver are Holger Rasmussen, Orla Vagn Mogensen, A. Michelsen and Hans Hansen. The Permanent Exhibition of Danish Industrial Arts is a good place to pick up marvelous textiles, pewter, ceramics, china and toys. Silver and furs much less than at home.
WHAT TO WEAR ... As there are no extremes of heat or cold in Denmark, you’ll need neither very heavy clothes nor your lightest cottons. Wool suits and dresses and a warm topcoat will be fine although it is recommended that women bring their furs for the winter months. Suits and a dressy black outfit will fill a woman’s needs in Copenhagen. Formal attire is seldom worn except for Saturday evening dancing at the Ambassadeur or the Wivex. Business suits, a topcoat and tweeds in the country for men. Bring a raincoat, too. Conservative sports clothes are favored by the natives anywhere outside of Copenhagen. Wear conventional sport clothes for active sports.
The “Little Mermaid” immortalized by Hans Christian Andersen, looks out to sea from a rock near Langelinie, Copenhagen’s favorite promenade.
Below is Town Hall Square in the cosmopolitan city of Copenhagen, often called the “city of spires.” Denmark is noted for the friendliness of its people.
Only 22 miles from Copenhagen in Hillerod stands the historically significant Frederiks-borg castle which now houses the National Historical museum.
[48]