NEW HORIZONS
ITALY (Cont.)
tombs of Machiavelli and Michelangelo; the Church of San Lorenzo with its Donatello pulpits; the Palazzo Riccardi, residence of the Medicis, with the Medici chapel containing fabulous frescoes of the Nativity of Benozzo Gozzoli, the Ponte Vecchio, the bridge across the Arno lined with shops. It was spared in the war but everything around it suffered; the Boboli Gardens which have been plagiarized by every Italian restaurant the world over. Save energy by hiring an English-speaking guide if your time is short. You’ll need two or three days or more to do justice to the city. There is a service “Information Please” at 6 Via Vecchietti, which provides baby sitters, nurses and guides.
Naples . . . The Bay of Naples dominated by Vesuvius is famous on post cards the world over. Naples suffered great damage in the war and the city and its people still show the effects. The best hotels are the Excelsior and Vesuvio. Main reason for going to Naples these days is its side trips. Pompeii with its fabulous ruins is only a half hour away. Two hours away from Pompeii are Sorrento and Positano and the famous Amalfi Drive, which is cut into the side of the hills. From the drive you see spread out the tiny fishing villages and the bay. You can visit the summit of Vesuvius with a guide.
capri . . . Most famous resort near Naples is the Island of Capri, known in song and verse. Here is the well known Blue Grotto, the flower-laden villas, the small beaches, the walks along the cliffs. Drive to Anacapri a charming village with a picturesque square. There is a good hotel here, the Caesar Augustus. In Capri try the Morgano Tiberio. Buy roped-soled shoes, scarves, cotton skirts and fishing shirts. Take the funicular to Marina Grande, the fishing village where you get a boat for a sail into the Blue Grotto. Lie in the sun on the beach at Marina Piccola. Relax and enjoy the beauty. You’ll see lots of famous people here. It’s a gathering spot for the international set.
Venice is the stuff of dreams. It is romance, beauty and an idyll. It is Venice. The mecca of tourists for more than a hundred years. Venice, of course, is built on a series of small islands at the head of the Adriatic Sea. Its main “streets” are lagoons and canals on which float the romantic gondolas, the motor launches, the canal barges, the ferry boats. There are, however, streets and bridges on which pedestrian traffic may stroll. Venice was in her glory during the Middle Ages when her ships controlled the richest trade routes in the world. Her decline began in the sixteenth century, but her renown as a romantic, beautiful spot has never failed her. You’ll want to see the Basilica of St. Mark in famous St. Mark’s Square where everyone feeds the pigeons. St. Mark’s was finished in 1500 and is a magnificent example of Byzantine architecture. The interior is lined with fine mosaics. St. Mark’s Square also has the famous Clock Tower which tells not only the hours but the daily position of the sun and moon. See the Palace of the Doges with its wonderful rooms decorated by sixteenth century artists. Pay special attention to the Tintorettos. See the dungeons. The Campanile, or bell tower dominates the Square. You can’t miss it. Other important churches in Venice include Frari and Sts. Giovanni and Paolo. Visit the privately owned San Gregorio Cloisters; Palazzo Rezzonico with its magnificent eighteenth century rooms; Ca d’Oro one of Venice’s oldest houses. You will want to take a gondola through the Grand Canal lined with historical palaces. You will pass under the Rialto, the Bridge of Sighs (2 hours from Rome by air.)
Stay at the Gritti, the Danieli, the Grand, the Europa or the Luna. Dine at La Taverna which is tops; Florian's on St. Mark’s Square which is very popular; La Colombo, famous for sea food; The Locanda on the island of Torcello. If you have time, visit Murano and the glass factories. Venetian glass is world famous. Cross the Lagoon by motor launch and visit the Lido, the famed beach resort, with its excellent hotels; the Excelsior and the Grand Hotel des Bains, the Lido Palace. The first two hotels have the best beaches. Everyone rents a cabana and lazes in the sun. There is a casino, too. The Feast of the Redeemer is held on the third Sunday in July. It is a great festival with illuminated barges, gondolas, fireworks, song and color. Worth being there to see. There are several cities off the beaten tourist path which will interest particularly lovers of Shakespeare. Padua, for instance which became more famous when Alfred Drake sang about it in “Kiss Me Kate” the musical version of “Taming of the
Shrew.” Verona, the home of Romeo and Juliet and the place those “Two Gentlemen of Verona” came from. The Roman Theatre here gives Shakespeare in Italian in summer.
Milan . . . This is the city of the famous Milan Cathedral with its pinnacles and statues. It escaped the bombings and stands in beautiful majesty. The “Last Supper,” by Leonardo da Vinci, may be seen in the convent of the Church of Santa Maria delle Grazie. This, too, was spared in the war, although the three walls of the convent were destroyed. Milan is the home of the world-famous La Scala Opera which holds forth from December to May. Make a point to see the museum which is devoted entirely to relics of the opera. Canova’s statue of Napoleon may be seen in the Brera Gallery along with the works by Veronese, Raphael and Tintoretto. The Castle Sfor-zesco houses works of many of the great masters, too.
Italian riviera . . . The stretch of Ligurian coast from Savona to Ventimiglia is now officially called the Riviera dei Fiori (River of Flowers). Most important resort in this region is San Remo which has luxurious hotels, a Casino, and all the attributes of a fashionable playground. Here as on the French Riviera, you may ski just a few miles from the Mediterranean at Mt. Bignone which is reached by cableway. There is a golf course half way up the mountain, too. Genoa about four hours away hasn’t too much to offer. Beyond are famous Rapallo, Santa Margherita, Ligure and Portofino, an international set favorite, famous for its octopus. There are hotels and pensions. Excellent fishing, swimming. Continuing south (3l/i hours by car) you come to Pisa with the leaning tower; fragments of an Etruscan wall, bridges over the Arno and a citadel.
the Italian lakes ... Most famous of the Italian lakes which have the Alps as their background is Lake Como about an hour away from Milan. Bellagio is the best known resort among the many villages which line its shores, Launches may be rented to visit spots of interest. At Cernobbio you’ll find Villa d'Este, a luxurious hotel which at one time was a royal residence. Lake Lugano is partly in Italy, partly in Switzerland. The town of Lugano which is in Ticino across the Swiss border has a casino. Lake Maggiore is another resort that is partially Swiss. Here is the town of Stresa the center of the district which has good hotels; the Grand-Hotel et des lies Borromees, Regina Palace and Milan. The lakes are near each other and all have good hotels.
You’ll find Lake Garda a few hours from Lake Como worth seeing. This is the largest of the lakes and it is here that d’Annun-zio lived. Pay special attention to the steep road bordering the lake which is tunneled through rock and has windows cut into it.
the dolomites ... Cortina d’Ampezzo, the key resort of the Dolomites, has been named as the site of the Winter Olympic games in 1956. There are excellent ski slopes, a bobsled track, toboggan runs, ski jumps and skating rinks. There are instructors who are multi-lingual, cableways and ski tows. There are numerous hotels and pensions. Try the Hotel Cristallo or the Majestic Miramonti. Best ski season is December to March. Other villages nearby are San Martino de Castrozza, Misurina, Ortisei. Cortina is also famous as a summer resort. To the west is Bolzano from which you may drive into Austria or Switzerland. The road to Switzerland is one of the dizziest mountain trips on the continent, but magnificent.
sicily . . . Way to the south, off- the toe of the boot, is Sicily which more Americans know about since the war than ever did before. Taormina is the beauty spot. A delightful resort with unspoiled charm. You can ski on Mt. Etna and swim in the Mediterranean. There is a very fine hotel San Domenico Palace with surprisingly cheap rates for its luxury. The best season is spring. Summer is hot, but pleasantly so. Other towns of interest in Sicily are, Enna, Palermo, Segesta and Selinunte. Syracuse is interesting for its Greek and Carthaginian ruins. And Mt. Etna, of course, is well worth seeing. Sicily is being modernized, new hotels are opening. If you want something a little different, it’s worth a visit and less than 2 hours by air from Rome.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing, football, yacht races, speed boat tests, motorcycle races, golf, tennis tourneys, water polo. There are several race tracks near Rome.
SPORTS . . . Everyone bicycles, you can hire horses for riding, there are fine beaches for swimming throughout Italy.
[26]