AUSTRIA
WEATHER IN VIENNA—Lat. N48°20'—Alt. 550'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
t Low	28°	29°	35°	41°	50°	55°	58°	570	51°	43°	35°	31'
Temp. < High	36°	38°	48°	56°	65°	70°	73°	72°	65°	55°	42°	38'
/ Average	32°	34°	42°	49°	58°	63°	66°	65°	58°	49°	39°	35'
Days of Rainfall	7	5	7	8	9	10	10	8	7	8	7	7
LOCATION . . . Austria lies in central Europe to the south of Germany. Vienna, in the eastern part of the country is 224 air-miles east of Munich.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This beautiful country which suffered so much during the war is again ready to welcome tourists. There are some new hotels, some new restaurants and, of course, the same old beautiful scenery which made Austria one of the famous tourist spots of the world. Here you will find the Salzburg Festival, famous the world over; Vienna with its cafes; Innsbruck with its marvelous skiing. The people are friendly and you can have a delightful time.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 7,057,140 in 1948, about as great as the population of Chicago, Detroit and Los Angeles.
CAPITAL... Vienna (or Wien) a city of 1,730,613, almost as large as Detroit.
GOVERNMENT ... A provisional government, a democratic republic of eight provinces and the city of Vienna, was established in 1945, and was accepted by the Allied Control Commission for Austria.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, 2514 hours (elapsed time) to Vienna from New York via Frankfort. By ship, 5 to 9 days to Le Havre, France, then about 28 hours by train to Vienna.
VIENNA
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . The inn is a part of native Austrian life. Every village has at least one inn and so throughout Austria accommodations are clean and comfortable. But there are first-class hotels, in most places, which have private baths and excellent food. The large resorts all have modern hotels and all have inns with modern conveniences. The best hotels in Austria generally charge a maximum of five dollars a day for room, bath and three meals during the high season. Many Austrian hotels and inns have that ineffable quality termed “atmosphere.” The historic Goldener Adler in Innsbruck has it, as does the Goldener Hirsch in Salzburg. In Vienna Bristol, the Imperial and the Grand are now occupied. Other good hotels are the Astoria, the Erzherzog Rainer, the Kaiserin Elisabeth, Stefanie and the Krantz-Ambassador. Rates in these latter hotels run from three to four dollars a day with private bath and food.
ARTS . .. Vienna’s reputation as an art center is due to its wonderful museums filled with collections by world famous masters. One should visit the Albertina Museum which houses a famous collection of the works of Raphael, Michelangelo, Titian, the Dutch masters, Rembrandt and Italian and German primitives. Duerer’s work housed in this museum is one of the world’s outstanding collections. The National Museum of Fine Arts contains priceless collections. Here are represented all the great masters, such as Peter Breughel and Duerer, the best Velasquez collection outside of Madrid, Rembrandt, Rubens, Holbein, Giorgione, Titian, Moretto, Raphael and Correggio. Don’t miss seeing the Lichtenstein Picture Gallery and the Vienna Museum of the History of Art.
BALLET .. . Famous ballet of the Vienna Opera, Grete Wiesenthal Ballet.
BANKS . . . The Creditanstalt-Bankverein and the Laender-bank are Austria’s principal banks. Other banking institutions include the Hypotheken-und Creditinstitut, the Arbeiter and the Schoeller bank. The American Express Company will cash traveler’s checks and so will the banks and most hotels.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . New Year’s Day; January 6, Epiphany; Good Friday; Easter Sunday and Monday;
May 1, State Holiday; May 18, Ascension of Christ; Whitsun Sunday and Monday; June 8, Corpus Christi; August 15, Ascension of Mary; November 1, All Saints’ Day; Christmas and December 26.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO ... All tobacco products are available but expensive.
CLIMATE ... Of a temperate, sub-alpine climate, Austria has approximately the same seasons as the United States. However, it rarely becomes either terribly hot or bitingly cold, and the seasons slip gradually into one another without abrupt temperature changes. From late October to mid-December the countryside receives heavy rain, but Vienna is always agreeable. In the mountain regions snow begins to fall in mid-December, thereafter the air being crisp and clear, cold but sunny.
CLUBS . . • United States Press Club, Austrian Press Club, P.E.N. Club, Jockey Club. Clubs in the Anglo-American sense are unknown in Austria.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS ... It is quite usual in Austria to make acquaintances in public places, particularly in the coffee shops. You may speak freely to Austrians, but don’t discuss the occupation. The tempo of living in Austria is a bit slower than in the United States so be patient when exacting personal service. The Austrians are very gracious. Many tourists take to native apparel upon arrival in Austria, but in Vienna the usual international city attire is recommended. About 11 o’clock in the morning Austrians enjoy going to their favorite sidewalk cafe for coffee and the newspaper.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone, telegraph and cable facilities are near pre-war efficiency in Austria.
CURRENCY • • • The schilling is the principal monetary unit in Austria. At any bank 25.52 schillings are given for the dollar, the Austrian schilling being worth about 3.871 cents.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ... Except for duty free limit of 200 cigarettes or 40 cigars or 200 grams of tobacco, 1 bottle of wine, V2 pint of hard liquor, you may take into Austria anything which is for your personal use. An unlimited amount of dollars may be brought into Austria up to 1,000 Austrian schillings. All currency must
[36]