NEW HORIZONS
ISRAEL (Cont.)
summer and mild in winter. Even during the height of summer, evenings are cool in Jerusalem and in the hills of Galilee and Haifa. Tel Aviv averages a few degrees warmer than Jerusalem.
CLUBS... Rotary Club, P.O.B. 1157, Tel Aviv. Tel. 5757; Israel Touring Club, d’lsraeli St. Talbieh, Jerusalem. Tel. 5783; Commercial and Industrial Club, 32, Yavne St. Tel Aviv. Tel. 2667; Automobile Club, 5, Levontin St. Tel. Aviv. Tel. 80575 and 1, Palmer’s Gate, Haifa. Tel. 4376.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. . . Israelis are pleased if they hear you speak even one word of Hebrew. The most-used word is “Shalom”, meaning “Peace”, used as an all-purpose greeting. They are happy to answer questions about their native land, and are curious about your country, so be prepared to answer questions.
COMMUNICATIONS. . . There is censorship on all telegrams, cables and letters entering or leaving the country, which slows communications. Post office branches in towns and cities are open from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Post offices are closed on holidays and on Saturdays. The Central Telegraph Offices are open night and day including Saturdays and holidays. Telephones are not too plentiful in Israel. There are few call boxes, but telephones in drug stores are open for local calls. Other calls should be made at your hotel or post office. Radio-telegraph service everywhere. Rates may be obtained at all Government Tourist Information Centers.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit is the Israel pound, on a par with the pound sterling and is rated at $2.80. It is divided into 1000 prutas. You may bring into Israel 25 Israel pounds, foreign currency to any amount, and any amount of securities, cheques, letters of credit, and travelers cheques. Upon your arrival you must declare at customs all currency and valuables in your possession. While in Israel you will be expected to purchase for your use a minimum of two and one half Israel pounds per day (about $7) to cover your minimum expenses (board and lodging). If for some reason—you may be staying with friends, for example—you find yourself spending less than this amount per day, get in touch with the offices of the Controller of Foreign Currency, which will consider abatements on the grounds you offer. See under characteristics for new currency advantages.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS. . . Upon your arrival in Israel you must declare all currency and valuables, and all articles liable to duty. Certain personal effects are exempt from duty: clothes, in reasonable quantities; cameras, binoculars, typewriters and sports gear excluding firearms; perfume or cologne not exceeding half a pint; implements, tools, and instruments used by the traveler professionally; and up to 22 pounds of foodstuffs. You may bring with you, subject to duty, gifts to a total value of $112. Radios require a special license.
note . . . Undeveloped motion picture and still film must be passed by the censor upon leaving the country, so be sure to keep a record of all scenes photographed. Black and white film can be developed and printed in Israel, but the quality of work is not always the finest.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED... A visa as well as your passport is required for entry into Israel. Remember that your visa must be renewed upon expiration. You must have a vaccination certificate.
please note that once you have passed into Israel and have obtained an Israeli visa in your passport, even though expired, you cannot re-enter Syria, or Lebanon, but must leave Israel by way of Cyprus, Istanbul or Rome. You may make an original entry from Israel, however.
DRUG STORES... In the larger cities of Israel drug stores containing many American goods or their equivalents may be found.
FAUNA. . . Wild Bird Life: falcon, heron, stork, owl, eagle, raven, pelican, partridge, quail. Wild Animals: jackal, hedgehog, bear, gazelle, wild boar, mole, bat, field-mouse, fox. Reptiles: viper, lizard, gecko (a large lizard), chameleon. Insects: locust, scorpion. Domesticated Animals: All farmyard animals and fowls customary in the United States, plus camel and peacock.
FLORA. . . Lovely are the civic gardens in Jerusalem, the parks of Ramat Gan and Nathania, shady Rothschild Boulevard in Tel Aviv, and the Bahai Gardens in Haifa. Charming settlement gardens throughout the country add to the beauty of Israel. To stroll on Mount Carmel or through one of the Jewish National Fund forests is an inspiring experience.
FOOD. . . Special arrangements have been made to free tourists of the limitations of rationing provided they pay for hotel accommodation (including meals) in foreign currency. A number of hotels and restaurants have been licensed to serve tourists under this system: They are: King David in Jerusalem; Megiddo and Zion in Haifa; Sharon in Herzliya; Galea Khmer et in Tiberias; Dolphin in Shavei Zion; Armón, Gat Rimon, Kaete Dan, Park and Yarkon in Tel Aviv. In addition, in order to provide for the needs of observant tourists, the Bouston Restaurant in Tel Aviv, Ben-Ami St., the Hesse Restaurant off Princess Mary Avenue, Jerusalem, and the Israel Touring Club in Jerusalem, Talbieh, have also been included in this list.
For those who do not wish to avail themselves of the above service, ration cards in hotels are unnecessary, save for meat meals. At their point of entry, tourists receive on request ten meat coupons for the first fortnight of their stay. Additional coupons will be allocated on the same scale when the first fortnight has passed. These additional coupons are available at all Government Tourist Information Centers, as are full ration cards for visitors staying with friends. The Savoy Hotel, the Windsor Hotel, the Hotel Ben Yehunda, and the Meggido Hotel are excellent places to dine in Haifa. The Hotel Moriah is recommended in Jerusalem. The Gat-Rimon Hotel is suggested for dining in Tel Aviv.
LANGUAGE. . . You will have no language problem.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES, . . Nor mal service isn’t fast, but by paying a 20 percent surcharge you can get “express” service which cuts the time in half.
LIQUOR. . . Whiskey and soda is available for about $1. There are some good local wines such as Adorn Atic, a red dry wine, and Carmel Hock, a white dry wine; and there is also Chablis, Pommeranz and Carmel Port. Rishon, Cognac and cherry-brandy are also popular.
MEDICAL FACILITIES. . . Good, with English-speaking doctors.
MOTION PICTURES. . . Motion picture houses are numerous, and show both American and European films. There are few continuous shows, most cinemas offering two evening performances and one matinée.
MUSIC. . . Israel’s musical life is a rich one. The Israel Philharmonic is the principal orchestra. Serving under the baton of such world famous guest conductors as Bernstein and Munch and with such well-known soloists as Tourel, Heifetz, Firkusny, Menuhin and Stern, the orchestra performs subscription and special concerts throughout the year both in the main cities and the smaller centers. Chamber music is also highly developed. A rich variety of programs is offered throughout the year by quartets, performing at the Tel Aviv Museum, the Yasha Heifetz Hall, the Cultural Center of the Federation of Labour and other concert halls. Choir groups specializing in both classical and modern music are also to be heard. Weekly popular concerts are given in Jerusalem by the “Kol Yerushalayim Orchestra.”
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS... No night clubs exist as yet in Israel, but several cafés have floor-shows in the evenings. The Casino Bat Galim is Haifa’s best-known cabaret. Haifa’s Megiddo Hotel features a dance orchestra nightly.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE. . . 38, Achad Haam Street, Tel Aviv. (Tel. 4422).
RELIGION. . . The best time to visit the many and varied synagogues is on Jewish Festivals, Friday nights and Saturday mornings. There are four main Christian Communities in Israel: Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Protestant, and Orthodox Monophysites. The Roman Catholic community is divided into three groups: the Latins, numbering six thousand, most of them living in Galilee, their Monsignor Antonio Vergani, their Vicar Father Kuehn; the Greek-Catholics, numbering about fifteen thousand, settled mainly in Haifa and Galilee, their Archbishop George Hakim; the Maronites, two thousand in
[63]