CHILE
WEATHER IN		VALPARAISO		—Lat. S33°01' (75 miles WNW of Santiago)—Alt. 25'								
	JAN.	FEB.	MAR. APR.		MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.						NOV. DEC.	
i Low	56°	56°	54°	52°	50°	47=	47=	47=	48°	50°	52°	54°
Temp. •< High	73°	73°	71°	68°	64°	61°	60°	62°	63°	66°	69°	12°
/ Average	65°	65°	63°	60°	57°	54°	54°	55°	56°	58°	61°	63°
Days of Rainfall	1	0	1	3	6	8	7	6	4	3	1	1
LOCATION ... A narrow strip between the Andes and the South Pacific, Chile extends from Peru 2,900 miles along the west coast of South America—farther than from New York to Los Angeles.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The capital of Chile has a different atmosphere from most of the capitals in its sister countries. Somehow it is less Latin.
Many of the people have English, Irish or German ancestry and you will see many blond people who speak only Spanish but look as though they should speak English. The city itself is beautifully located on a high plain. The Mapocho river runs through the city and the peaks of the Andes are to the east. Commanding the city are Cerro San Cristobal whose terraced slopes rise high above the town. The city is modern and there are few old buildings.
POPULATION... Estimated 6,800,000 in 1950, the population of Chicago and Philadelphia together.
SIZE . . . 286,396 square miles, a larger total area than Texas but most of the country is barely 100 miles wide.
CAPITAL . . . Santiago, the fourth largest city of South America with a population of approximately 1,500,000. Larger than Baltimore.
GOVERNMENT ... A republic with a President and National Congress elected by universal suffrage.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Panagra’s de luxe through-plane service, “El Interamericano” down the West Coast of South America 17 hours (elapsed time) from Miami; by connecting airline, less than 23 hours from New York. Stopovers if you wish at Balboa, Canal Zone; Guayaquil, Ecuador; Lima, Peru or Antofagasta, Chile. By Pan American’s de luxe through-plane service, “El Presidente” down the East Coast, 29 hours to Buenos Aires from New York. Then by Panagra, Santiago is 3 hours from Buenos Aires. From the United States West Coast flights for South America connect at Miami or Panama City. By ship about 18 days from New York to Valparaiso and about 30 days from the United States West Coast.
SANTIAGO
ACCOMMODATIONS .. . The Carrera is a new seventeen-story hotel with swimming pool, roof garden. It is one of the most luxurious on the continent. Rates are $3.50 to $7.00 single, $5 to $8 double, European plan. The Crillon is older and quieter, still a favorite with Chilean society. Its French cuisine is famous. Rates range from $3.20 to $6.90 single, European plan. Other hotels are the Capri, The Ritz, the Savoy.
ARTS . . . The Museum of Natural History, The Museum of Fine Arts, the National Library claimed to be the largest on the continent are worth seeing.
BALLET . . . There is a native ballet company which performs at the Teatro Municipal. Visiting ballet companies appear from time to time, too.
BANKS . . . National City Bank of New York. It is wise to consult Panagra in exchange.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . May 1st, Labor Day; May 21, Patriotic Day; September 18th and 19th, Independence Day;*October 12th, Discovery of America; November 1st, Religious Day; December 8th, Immaculate Conception; and several other religious feasts during the year.
CIGARETTES, PIPES, TOBACCO ... American cigarettes are not available in general stores. Small quantities of cigarettes for personal use are admitted duty free, approximately two cartons and two tins of tobacco.
CLIMATE . . . The name of the country is derived from an Indian name meaning cold. Santiago, however, is mild the year round. The climate is similar to that of southern California. It grows colder as you go south, warmer toward the north. Their
summer season is our winter. Altitude of Santiago is 1800 feet.
CLUBS . . . Cards may be arranged for most of the Santiago clubs through members or if you are a member of a comparable club at home. Club de la Union is famous and very good. Their restaurant and cellar are marvelous; Club Hipico, El Hipodromo, the Jockey Club is exclusive and swank; Los Leones Golf Club; Club de Polo San Cristobal; The Prince of Wales Club for golf; the Polo Club has tennis courts and swimming pool.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS .. . The chaperone is a thing of the past in Chile. The dinner hour is late, around nine. Tea around five is a local custom. Cocktail parties begin around seven. If invited for dinner to a Chilean home you may be from a half hour to an hour late unless your host says English time. That means be prompt.
Every young Chilean is at one time or another a member of the fire department. When a siren sounds men leave anything they are doing and hop into cabs which take them to the fire free.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Western Unions, cables, long distance telephone.
CURRENCY . .. The monetary unit is the peso worth about one or two cents.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Passport, vaccination certificate, health certificate are required of you. No visa required for tourists for visits up to three months. You may bring in all articles for personal use. No restrictions on cameras and small restrictions on liquor (about two bottles per person).
DRUG STORES .. . Most United States products are available in local drug stores.
[122]