NEW HORIZONS
!
NEW ZEALAND (Cont.)
Auckland. It is here at Russell that the famous Bay of Islands Swordfish and Mako Shark Club has its headquarters. Zane Grey, the noted sportsman and writer, was among the first to discover and popularize big game fishing here. Marlin, shark, sailfish, kingfish, swordfish are all to be found here. And record breaking is not unusual. There are innumerable charter boats available with competent captains. There are several excursion launches which take you all over Bay of Islands. Cape Brett at the extreme Northeast is a wonderful fishing ground. There are many hotels and fishing camps strategically located around the Bay of Islands. Otehei Lodge at Otehei Bay is known as Zane Grey’s fishing camp, for it is here that the sportsman made his headquarters. No license fee is required for deep-sea fishing, but it is suggested that visitors join one of the fishing clubs to get the most enjoyment of the sport. This is not obligatory, however. The deep-sea fishing season is from November to April.
fishing in south island ... Quinnat salmon and brown trout abound in the inland waters of South Island. The streams in the Canterbury section between Christchurch and Timaru offer the best and easiest dry-fly fishing in the country. The Selwyn, Rakaia, Rangitata and Waihao Rivers are particularly good. The Selwyn lays claim to being one of the best brown trout streams in the world. In the southern group of fishing waters, the Waiau is known for its Atlantic salmon and Quinnat salmon run, near the mouth of the Waitaki. Lake Te Anau, largest of the South Island lakes, is the home of Atlantic salmon. Best angling is at the lake outlet where the Waiau River leaves the lake. There are hotels and fishing lodges everywhere. Before starting for a fishing tour of New Zealand, consult with sporting goods authorities on the types of tackle and equipment to take with you. Trout fishing in New Zealand demands sturdier equipment than used in the United States because of larger fish and faster waters. Salmon fishing also requires slightly different equipment. So unless you wish to hire your tackle, best make sure what you will need.
hunting . . . There is unlimited deer to be hunted in New
Zealand. Red, Fallow, Wapiti, Virginian, Sambur and Chamois may be stalked. The best season is their autumn. You may also hunt wild pig and wild cattle. There is no license fee, but opportunities vary in different districts, so it is well to inquire in advance. Ducks, swan, pheasant and quail offer shooting possibilities, too. But there is a season and a limit here. Usually the season is about four weeks in the autumn (March, April, May). All rifles brought into New Zealand must be registered with the Arms officer of the Police Department on arrival. No revolvers, automatics or pistols allowed. For game, 12 and 14 gauge shotguns and .22 rifles are commonly used. For birds, double barrelled 12 gauge shotguns are popular.
THEATRES . . . His Majesty's Theatre in Auckland has local theatrical companies and visiting troups from abroad.
TIME . . . 20Vi hours ahead of United States Pacific Coast Time.
TIPPING . . . No tipping except for veiy special services.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Americans will find the narrow gauge railways strange. But they will get you there. There are buses, ferries, taxicabs and cars for hire with or without drivers. There are sightseeing buses and inter-urban buses.
WATER ... You can drink the water.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Woolens, blankets, English pipes. Maori carvings and dolls dressed in native Maori costumes. Paua shell novelties.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . This depends upon where you are going and what you are going to do. You’ll need medium and light weight clothes for the North Island in their summer and heavier weight clothes in the winter. You will want beach clothes, raincoats, topcoats, slacks, sweaters and sports clothes. For walking through the Milford Track on South Island, you’ll need boots and sports clothes and rucksack. For fishing you’ll need whatever you always need. The same goes for skiing. In Auckland dress as you would in any medium sized city at home. You won’t need evening clothes particularly, but you certainly need a variety of sports clothes plus topcoat, sweaters and the like.
*
f
f
The rolling country pictured here gives an idea of the scenery around Otehei Bay in New Zealand’s popular Bay of Islands area.
:

There’s golf, fishing and more beautiful New Zealand scenery for guests of the excellent Chateau Tongariro in Tonga-riro National Park, _— North Island.
Near Rotorua, two Maori girls show how a “poi” is used for rhythmic action during native singing, one of many fascinating acts of these New Zealanders.
[170]
{