NEW HORIZONS
SPAIN (Cont.)
old, cost a little less than the European average. In Spain, the general rule is stay off the trains, and the buses. You must fly, or arrange (easy) for a private car. Trains, no matter what class, are only fair. Two important changes for the better—the brand new “Talgo,” smart Irun-Madrid train running from the French frontier to Madrid is good (the railroads are not government owned and they are trying hard to improve them); and there is a new Madrid sightseeing bus service, up to date buses and service. The bus line also has a 7-day tour to Andalucia that is fine. It includes Granada, Malaga, Cadiz and Seville.
WATER • • . Water in Madrid and Barcelona is fine. In small towns better stick to bottled water. Best (natural) is Solares.
WHAT TO BUY •.. Jewelry, especially when in Toledo; mantillas; linens, gloves, lace and leather goods of every kind are
superior; perfume good, cheaper than French; and plenty of good pottery, glassware. Dozens of rare sherry-wine types or vintage brandy. You can get a Balenciaga dress (in Madrid or San Sebastian) for $100, a man’s custom-made suit for $25; made-to-order shoes for $8 to $12. But the Spanish shawl is a rare antique now even in Spain and came from the Philippines in the first place . . . and castanets, of course.
WHAT TO WEAR .. . Women visitors will do well to stick to black silk or faille dresses while in principal cities of Spain. You may, of course, wear suits or prints. Spain is formal, although evening clothes are not necessary for tourists. Sports and beach-wear are necessary for seaside resorts such as San Sebastian, or Sitges. Light weight suits for men for city wear, sports clothes elsewhere. Take a topcoat.

This scene along the “Costa Brava,” the rugged coast of the Spanish Riviera, is typical of its unspoiled beauty.
The Spanish countryside presents fascinating variety of lush plains, towering mountains and ancient ruins, rich in historical interest.
Interesting architecture and colorful costumes make sunny village scenes a favorite subject for tourist photographers in Spain.
Many varieties of pottery and tilework are among the interesting and representative items to buy in Spain. Here tourists watch a pottery “factory” in operation.
A
The thrilling spectacle of the bullring is a panorama of color and excitement. The scene below is at El Espinar, Barcelona.
The Alhambra (built 1248-1354) is one of the finest examples of Moorish architecture in all Spain. It is located in Granada in the mountains of Southern Spain.
[57]