NEW HORIZONS
SPAIN (Cont.)
forms in triplicate, three photographs required. You must declare your currency and probably must count contents of your wallet and traveler’s checks at Spanish frontier. You make take 10,000 pesetas into, and up to 2,000 pesetas out of Spain. You may not take out a larger sum of foreign money than you took in. Cameras and films permitted. Purchases up to 25,000 pesetas may be taken out of the country by visitors without permit.
DRUG STORES ... In both Madrid and Barcelona you will find drug stores where English is spoken, with certain American products available at high prices; consult hotel clerk.
FOOD . . . Pasteurized milk in Barcelona and Madrid, smaller towns doubtful. Spanish food is hearty, the variety is prodigious, and the cooking almost without exception wonderful. You need never fear any of the fruits, great variety, melons, grapes, figs, oranges, many, many kinds you don’t get commonly at home, all very fine. Watch for the tiny wild strawberries, the many cheeses, the splendid seafood. Try different honeys, and the local specialties in the different parts of the country as you go about the countryside. There are delicate little cakes with fruits and nuts. Spanish sweets are famous (particularly the excellent nougats) and show their Moorish ancestry.
GAMBLING . . . Madrid has a fine race course, as does San Sebastian, where there is good horse racing over the Lasarte course each July, August, September. Greyhound racing in Madrid. Lotteries. Big betting on the “Fronton” (or jai lai) games, but you had best just watch it, unless you know something about it. Faster than light, and twice as exciting.
LANGUAGE ... English is understood in the larger centers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Fine with one or two day service almost anywhere.
LIQUOR . . . You can drink Sherry all through your Spanish trip, varying the type as often as you change cities, and if you choose, have it light (manzanilla) as well. As with the food, you might well enjoy one of the dozens of wines you find featured in its native province. Those of Malaga are delicious, always popular with Americans. There are many local liqueurs, such as Anis, and several Spanish brandies that you will find good, usually a little grapier than the same French grade, but very good. And they have the additional charm of being cheap, as are all Spanish distilled liquors in comparison to the price charged for Scotch and other foreign beverages. You will enjoy experimenting with the dozens of Spanish wines, until you find the ones you will want to stick to—perhaps for the rest of your life.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... English doctors, English-speaking dentists, are available in Madrid and Barcelona, with some English-speaking staff in some of the better hospitals—consult your hotel clerk, telephone directory.
MOTION PICTURES ... Foreign films, British, French and American are shown at most all theatres in both Madrid and Barcelona with Spanish sound tracks.
MUSIC . . . The Orquestra Sinfonica de Madrid, and the Orquestra Sinfonica de Barcelona are famous, give concerts all fall, winter and spring. San Sebastian has the best music in Spain each summer, especially during “Grand Week.” Barcelona’s winter opera season ranks very high, at least no worse than third in all Europe. Concerts and chamber music in Barcelona at the Palacio de la Musica Catalana, Opera at Teatro del Liceo. Best choir-boy singing in Spain is at Monasterio de Montserrat, Barcelona. Hear the gypsies in any restaurant. Barcelona is famous for its “Flamenco” dancing in many small cafes and “boites.” Also for the dancing in the streets, of the native “Sardanas” and “Jotas.”
NIGHT CLUBS . . . Madrid has night clubs and cabarets by the score, mostly very good, some excellent, and a few that are the last word in elegance. Try Pasaboga. Also Casa Blanca, open all year, and two smart summer clubs, Villa Romana, and Villa Rosa, where you dine and dance under the Spanish summer moon.
In Barcelona some of the smartest places are Rosaleda (food, dancing, floor show), Cortijo, Font del Lleo which also operates in downtown Barcelona as the Parrilla del Ritz (Ritz Grill).For good music and floor shows without food, try the Monterrey in summer or the downtown Rio in winter. Bodega del Calderon, one of the best in town, is open all year. Many top night clubs in
both cities will have fine native music, others where you dance to large, excellent bands. Cover charges are standard at better night clubs, which are generally considerably cheaper than at home.
PAN AMERICANS OFFICE ... In Barcelona, Calle Mallorca 250 (Tel.28-01-32). In Madrid, (General Agents) Plaza de las Cortes, 4 (Tel. 21-07-28).
RELIGION . . . Roman Catholicism is the state religion. Madrid has three Protestant churches, Barcelona, two. Both cities have Jewish synagogues.
RESTAURANTS . . . Both Madrid and Barcelona have plenty of really good eating places, cooking, genuinely good almost everywhere, and a variety that is bewildering. Delicacies from every part of Europe superimposed on dozens of native dishes, game and sea-food. Both Madrid and Barcelona have an abundance of three-star restaurants, besides the leading hotels, which are famed throughout the world for their excellence. About the most famous of them all, in a land known for good food are Madrid’s Jockey Club, Chipen and Hortcher's. Each is an expensive, de luxe, exclusive gourmet’s delight with a superlative cuisine and a fine setting. It will cost you money—and you will remember it. Best French and Continental restaurants in Barcelona are: Windsor, Perellada, Finisterre, Hostal del Sol. Other typical famous restaurants are Siete Puertas, Hostal de la Perdiz, Canario de la Garriga, Caracoles, and Sole near the waterfront, for sea food. Both cities will serve you their own famous specialties along with dishes each province claims for its own. Valencia’s Paella—yellow rice, with chicken, seafood, lobster or snails. Zarzuela de Mariscos (a wonderful shellfish dish) and Butifarra a la Catalana—a dandy Spanish sausage come from Barcelona. The Bilbao and San Sebastian locale offers three famous sea dishes: Chipirones en su tinta; Angulas, baby eels, you’ll love prepared half a dozen ways; and bacalao a la Vizcaína, sophisticated cod-fish. Both Madrid and Barcelona will offer cochinillo asado—savory suckling roast—said to be best in Segovia. Another superlative place to have a real Spanish meal while in Madrid is the small, charming El Pulpito, former hideout of Luis Candelas, the Castilian Robin Hood, where you see wonderful food cooked right before you. It has been operating in the same little spot since the Declaration was signed in Philadelphia.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The shops you will find open from 9:00 until 1:00. Everywhere, throughout the country they close at 1:00, reopening at 3:00 p.m. Closing time is later than with us, usually about 7:00 p.m. Besides the local festivals and feast days which vary, they close on major Holy Days of the Roman Catholic Church, such as Good Friday, Todos Santos (All Saints Day), November 1st and onChristmas and NewYears.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Madrid, in the very center of Spain, with over a million population, is built on a plateau, high enough to give it a pleasant and comfortable climate the whole year ’round, with weeks at a time under smiling skies. It is the very core of Spain, physically and spiritually, more than most capital cities, and the ideal headquarters for the tourist. If time is of the essence, spend your Spanish time right in the capital. And if you have but a day or two, Spain’s Prado, the great National Shrine of Art is the must. Many who know, think it is the world’s finest museum (Ritz Hotel nearby)—see the El Greco room, the many fine Italian school paintings. See the Goya frescoes in the church of San Francisco, where Goya is buried; the Plaza Mayor, main square of Madrid; the rose gardens in the beautiful Retiro Park, and its fine lake. The National Palace, the Museum of Modern Art, the Plaza de Colon, with its Christopher Columbus statue. Visit the bull ring. Two little easy side trips from the city are to El Escorial, Philip IPs stupendous palace-monastery, one of the fabulous buildings of the world. Toledo, only 90 kilometers south from Madrid, has most of El Greco’s art; make the trip if you only see his Burial of Count Orgaz in Santo Tomé. Get there (or to Seville) for the feast of Corpus Christi in June, if possible, or for the fair in August. Spend a little time looking over the Moorish civilization, and don’t fail to stay for lunch; the town’s food is famous all over Spain, especially its roast suckling pig, barbecued lamb, and its little marzipan cakes. After that see the wonderful sculptured figure of the Cardinal Tavera, and (one more El Greco) his fine painted portrait. Another little stop a few minutes from Madrid should be to Alcala de Henares, Cervantes’ birth-
[55]