ISRAEL
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Here you will have the thrill of seeing a nation in the making. Of seeing ancient cities and modern progressive ones. Of watching a people find themselves and build for the future. Besides which you will see the Holy Land with all its wonderful scenery, its wonderful Biblical sites, its age-old synagogues and churches. There are comfortable though not luxurious hotels in Israel and a wonderful climate. You are assured of a welcome for the Israelis are eager to let the world know what they are doing and planning. A tour of Israel can be a fascinating and inspirational experience. There’s also a new plan known as Service for Tourists in Israel (S.T.I.) under which tourists may enjoy a flat reduction of 25% on hotel accommodations, meals, sightseeing trips and purchases in tourist shops.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 1,350,000, the population of Cleveland plus most of Kansas City.
SIZE . . . Approximately 8,000 square miles, smaller than Massachusetts.
CAPITAL . . . Jerusalem, a growing city of more than 120,000, about the size of Savannah, Georgia.
GOVERNMENT ... an independent republic established 1948, with a president at its head and a Parliament, democratic in character, elected by universal secret ballot. The Parliament, apart from its day-to-day legislative activity, from time to time enacts “basic legislation.” These laws will, in time, form the constitution of the State. At present, the Parliament carries on in accordance with the “small constitution,” a group of laws on parliamentary procedure and authority adopted by majority vote at its first meetings.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper to London, Paris, Rome, Vienna, or Istanbul. Then by direct connection with El A1 Israel Airlines to Tel Aviv. Elapsed time from New York about 30 hours. By ship about 15 days with stopovers.
TEL AVIV, HAIFA, JERUSALEM
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . are still scarce in Israel, particularly in Tel Aviv, so book hotel reservations in advance with your travel agent. Israel’s hotels cannot for the present compare with luxury hotels in the United States, but they are extremely clean and comfortable. The Armon, the Bristol (which provides kosher cuisine), the Central, the Gat-Rimmon, the Kaethe Dan, the Park Central, the Yarkon, and the Yarden are the best hotels in Tel Aviv. The Megiddo and the Zion are recommended in Haifa. The best hotel in Jerusalem is the King David. Single room, bath, and full board at these hotels will run to a maximum of 41/4 Israeli pounds per day, or about 13 dollars in American currency. Single room and bath in a good but not luxurious hotel in one of Israel’s larger cities can be obtained for as little as three dollars per day in American money. At the holiday resorts and rest homes you can obtain full room and board for a maximum of about six American dollars per day.
ARTS . . . Permanent as well as periodical exhibitions of paintings appear in Tel Aviv, Haifa, and Jerusalem, as well as in some of the smaller cities. Even such small towns as Safad and Zichron Ya’akov have attracted artists’ colonies and house small collective and one man shows. There are museums of art at Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, The Tel Aviv Museum housing a fine collection of both native and foreign works. The Bezalel National Museum in Jerusalem contains modern and ancient exhibits. The Artist’s House is interesting too. The Haifa Municipal Museum holds an excellent archaeological collection. Museums housing antiquities, articles of ethnological or regional interest, and botanical and geological collections are found not only in the large cities; settlements such as Degania, Nahariya,
Ein Charod, and Sdoth-Yam also contain fine museums.
BALLET . . . Several ballet groups present dances in biblical and modern themes.
BANKS . . . recognized by the government, or other government recognized institutions for the purpose of foreign currency exchange, are to be found at every port of entry into Israel. Certain hotels are also authorized to exchange foreign money. Banks are open from Sunday through Thursday from 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., and on Fridays from 8:30 a.m. to 12 noon. Banks include Bank Leumi Le Israel, Barclays, Ottoman Bank, Palestine Discount Bank, Ellern’s, Jacob Japhet and Feucht-wanger.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Purim, the carnival festival in March; Passover, about the time of Easter; Independence Day on May 14th; Shavuoth, the feast of the first fruits in mid-June; Rosh Hashana, the Hebrew New Year, lasting for 2 days in mid-September; Yom Kippur, the day of fasting and atonement, 10 days following the end of Rosh Hashana; Sukkoth, the harvest festival, a week following the end of Yom Kippur; Hanukkah, the feast of Light, a few days before Christmas.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . Up to seven ounces of tobacco or cigars, or 200 cigarettes may be brought into Israel duty-free. More than that amount must be declared upon entering Israel, and is liable to duty. However, it is customary to grant exemptions on tobacco products should they not exceed too heavily the legal limit.
CLIMATE . . . Israel possesses a Mediterranean climate with unbroken sunshine during one half the year and short spells of rain during the second half. The rainy season lasts from the end of October to the beginning of April. The climate is warm in
[62]