NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRALIA (Cont.)
is clear and you can see the marine vegetation from an ordinary boat. All along the Great Barrier Reef you can take glass bottom boats or motor launches along what the Australians call “the great canal.” This is a magnificent vacation spot, a paradise for the sportsman and an escape for everyone tired of cities, night clubs and too many people. Even though many large hotels and night clubs are planned for this area, there is plenty of room and people who want peace and quiet will still be able to find it.
mt. kosciusko . . . Not far from Sydney is Kosciusko National Chase, a mountain reserve in the Great Dividing Range. Here some of the world’s best skiing is enjoyed from May to November. There are hotels which are comfortable and modern. The Hotel Kosciusko with central heating, dancing, motion pictures, bars and all sorts of things. Six miles below the summit is the Chalet, an extraordinary looking hotel made of checkered terra cotta, with a round tower entrance. It has modern accommodations, central heating and other attributes including a resident surgeon on hand for ski injuries. There is a ski lift nearby, and many practise the more difficult runs. There are daily classes held under the auspices of the Kosciusko ski school. There is a good motor road from Jindabyne to the summit. Mt. Kosciusko is a summer resort, too. There are golf courses, tennis courts, excellent trout fishing in the well stocked streams, riding and mountain climbing. The hotels are open all year ’round.
SPECTATORS SPORTS • • • Racing is the favorite sport in Sydney. There are four race courses in the metropolitan area: Randwick which accommodates 100,000 people, is four miles from the city; Canterbury, six miles from town; Rosehill, eight miles out has a two furlong stretch; Moorfield, five miles out is the home of the favorites. Trotting races are held Saturday afternoons at Harold Park Race course, one mile from the city. Greyhound Racing on Saturday nights at Harold Park Race course. There is a tote at all courses and bookmakers, too. They are legal there. All tracks have restaurants and bars. Meetings are held Saturdays and public holidays. Cricket matches are played at Sydney Cricket Ground. Football is popular during the autumn to winter season. Tennis, of course, is the National pride. They have the Davis Cup now, you know. Matches are played at the Lawn Tennis Association courts at White City, Rush Cutter’s Bay. Boxing and wrestling matches at Rush Cutter’s Bay or Leichhardt Stadiums. Midget car and motorcycle racing at Sydney Sports Grounds. Yachting regattas at Sydney and its nearby coastal resorts. Golf tournaments at the various golf clubs. The Royal Sydney Golf Club at Rose Bay is world famous.
SPORTS • • • There are many good municipal golf courses at which visitors are welcome, or you may arrange for cards at the various private golf clubs. Royal Sydney Golf Club is the largest. Municipal courses at Moore Park, Randwick and Bondi. There are horses for hire and many bridle paths. Swimming is wonderful at the beaches to the north and south of the city. There are many indoor pools, too. Tennis may be played by visitors at many private tennis clubs upon application. There is game shooting during the open seasons. Inquire at Visitor’s Bureau. Ice skating is popular at Glaciarium Ice Rink. Big game fishing is a favorite sport in New South Wales. Marlin, swordfish, tuna and sharks are plentiful. Inland streams are well stocked with trout and bass.
THEATRES • • • Overseas companies usually appear at the Empire. The Royal features Australian companies in opera, ballet, musical comedies. The Independent has a repertory stock company under the direction of Doris Fitton. The Tivoli specializes in vaudeville and revues. Special drama and ballet performances occasionally.
TIME • • • Time in Sydney is 18 hours later than Pacific Coast Standard Time. There are three time zones within the country.
TIPPING • • • Tip as you would at home, about 10 or 15 percent.
TRANSPORTATION • • • There are trams, buses, and ferries. These last are important in Sydney which is a harbor city. Cars for hire are reasonable, but traffic keeps to the left. There is a subway, too, known as the underground.
WATER • • • Both safe to drink and good tasting.
WHAT TO BUY • • • Australian woolens are the finest in the world. Blankets are a good buy. Crocodile and lizard bags and shoes are cheaper here.
WHAT TO WEAR • • • Depends entirely on when you go and where. For New South Wales in their summer season, you will need beach clothes, sports attire and evening clothes. For Sydney and the other larger cities, dress as you would at home. Light colored clothes are fine in summer. Medium or light weight suits for women are always practical. Take a topcoat. Men need slacks and sports jackets. White suits for the tropics, warmer clothes for other areas.
MELBOURNE
ACCOMMODATIONS • • • Australian Hotel, 626 Collins Street is modern and good. Single with bath about $3.25 per day; Menzies Hotel, 509 Bourke Street is cosmopolitan and quite formal, rates about $4.00 per day single with bath; Windsor Hotel is quiet and conservative. Rates about $3.60 single with bath; The Chevron, 519 Kilda Road is just outside the city, about six minutes away, has tennis courts and swimming pool. Attractive rooms; The Delgetti, at South Yarra, about ten minutes from town, is adjacent to Botanic Gardens and is attractive and modern; Hotel Alexander is strictly commercial, but all rooms have bath; Prince of Wales Hotel at St. Kilda is modern and well appointed. Just off the beach.
ARTS • • • The National Art Gallery has an excellent collection of modern art as well as old masters. The National Museum houses exhibits which include the stuffed and mounted Phar Lap, the wonder horse. There is a definite national art movement in Australia and there are several Australian artists who are making themselves known internationally. There is quite an art season in Sydney and Melbourne with many exhibitions.
BALLET • • • There is an Australian Ballet Company which tours the various states. Visiting companies appear from time to time at His Majesty's Theatre.
BANKS • • • The Commercial Bank of Australia, Ltd., 335 Collins Street, Thos. Cook & Son, 267 Collins Street.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS • • New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, King’s Birthday (June 9th) Anniversary Day (January 26), Christmas Day, Boxing Day (December 26).
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO • • • American cigarettes are very difficult to get. Take in what you need and pay the duty .. . it is worth it. Australian cigarettes such as Capstans are very unlike ours. Pipe tobacco is rather good.
CLIMATE • • • The seasons are the reverse of ours. There are no extremes of heat or cold.
CLUBS • • • Royal Melbourne Golf Club, St. Kilda Lawn Tennis Club, International Rotary. Melbourne is as conservative as Boston or Philadelphia and clubs play just as important a part in the social life as in these two cities. Members of comparable clubs in the United States may have guest privileges upon arrangement.
COMMON COURTESIES ÁND LOCAL CUSTOMS . Although the Australians are very much like us, there are language differences. There is practically no steam heat except in the modern hotels and office buildings; refrigeration is a luxury in most homes.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Cable and airmail service to the United States. Also trans-Pacific phone service.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the Australian pound, worth $2.24.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS • • • Passport and visa. Vaccination certificate, return passage or proof of sufficient funds. You may bring in 200 cigarettes and two bottles of liquor.
DRUG STORES • • • Known as chemist’s shops. They carry pharmaceuticals only. You can find well known brands of staples.
FAUNA • • • The kangaroo, the platypus, the koala are the most famous animals in Australia. The kookaburra bird which laughs instead of sings is a national phenomenon, too. The emu, the lyre-bird, the love bird, the bower bird, the parakeet are all indigenous.
FLORA • • • The state of Victoria is noted for its wild flowers.
[173]