NEW HORIZONS
PAKISTAN (Cont.)
visiting.
FOOD . . . Pakistanis are fond of spicy but tasty food. There are numerous varieties of curries, pulaos (specially cooked meat and rice), and kebabs (fried and boiled meat), shami kebab (fried meat cakes). Kofta (meat balls), Murgh-i-Mussalam (stuffed fried chicken) and Shahi Tukre (sweetbreads cooked in milk and honey) are a “must.”
■ GAMBLING . . . The main centers of horse-racing in Pakistan are Karachi and Lahore. Races are held every weekend of the season with pari-mutuel betting.
LANGUAGE . . . Urdu is the official language of Pakistan, but English is widely understood. English is a compulsory second language in schools, and the average traveller will have no difficulty in making himself understood and getting what he requires when using English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES... Laundries and dry cleaners are available everywhere. Home service is also easily obtained.
LIQUOR . . . In the main centers of Pakistan most foreign brands of liquor are available.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Good doctors and surgeons. Fully equipped hospitals are to be found in all the leading cities.
MOTION PICTURES. . . There are a large number of movie theaters. American films are popular. British films are also shown.
MUSIC . . . Pakistani and European music can be heard on Radio Pakistan, which is “non-Commercial.” There are also occasional symphony programs at some of the cinema houses.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Night clubs, as we know them, are not found in Pakistan. However, all the leading hotels have western type bar-rooms and cabarets. The floor shows of the Beach Luxury, Metropole and others are considered to be of a high standard.
PAN AMERICAN'S OFFICE . . . Bandukwalla Bldg., McLeod Road (Tel. 2297).
RELIGION. . . The majority of the people are Moslem. Others are Hindus and Zoroastrians, and there are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . The leading hotels have excellent dining rooms. Other good restaurants in Karachi are the Shezan, Fir do s and Manhattan.
SHOPS AND STORES... In Karachi the shops around the Metropole Hotel offer all varieties of goods. Elphinston Street is also a big shopping center.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Karachi has no sightseeing companies but you can get about the city by cab or gharry (a horse-drawn vehicle) the driver of which will act as your guide. About three miles from the town of Karachi is the Clifton Beach on the Arabian Sea, a popular evening resort. It has the beautiful Hanging Gardens, and on moonlight nights the charm of the surroundings is increased manyfold. About thirty miles from Karachi is fertile Malir, which with swimming pools and the Grand Hotel offers a fine spot for relaxation. West of Karachi is the little island of Manora, which offers an excellent view of the city and certain interesting sights such as a pilot station, a lighthouse and a fishermen’s camp that attract many visitors. From Manora westward, about twelve miles, there appears Cape
Monz, a long strip of magnificent golden sands on which are situated bathing resorts. Four and a half miles from Manora is Sandspit, accessible by boat up the creek, at this point separated from the sea by a narrow strip of beach. Spend a weekend there. Another such holiday resort is Hawk’s Bay, about 12 miles from Karachi. Manghopir (eleven miles north from Karachi), well known shrine of a saint, is built on a rock, and is famous for its hot water sulphur springs. Children are especially interested in a tank which is full of crocodiles bred from two tamed by the Saint. A trip to Bund Murad Khan is good for lovers of fish and sport. Another place worth visiting is Tatta, 64 miles from Karachi, full of historic ruins of Mogul and pre-Mogul period. A visit to the Pakistan Parliament, if in session, and the grave of Quaid-i-Azam, founder of Pakistan, should be made.
Lahore ... Roughly four hours by air from Karachi, Lahore is the second largest city of Pakistan with a population slightly over a million. It is the cultural and academic center of Pakistan, the location of over forty colleges and institutions, including Punjab University. One of Lahore’s great treasures is the exquisite Shalimar Gardens, a masterpiece of the great Mogul Emperor, Shah Jahan, who was also responsible for the Taj Mahal. The beautiful tomb of Jahangir, the father of Shah Jahan, is also well worth a visit.
The famous Badshahi (Royal) Mosque, largest mosque in the world, is also located in Lahore. Among the many monuments of interest you’ll see a plaque in the office of the Civil & Military Gazette, on the Mall, recording that Rudyard Kipling once worked there. Kim’s Gun, Zam Zama, still stands outside the Museum where Kipling’s father was Curator.
Lahore is where Pakistan’s film studios are, and the center for wrestling, a popular sport here. The city is at its best during the winter season, October to March.
SPECTATOR SPORT. . . Hockey and football (soccer), are popular national games, and tournaments are held in the big cities. Cricket is also played in winter.
SPORTS . . . Golf and tennis facilities are available at clubs for members and their guests. There are fine pools for swimming and numerous places for fishing and hunting. Many clubs for football and hockey.
TIME. . . Time in Karachi and West Pakistan is 9Vi hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time. East Pakistan time is 11 hours later.
TIPPING... 10% of the bill is the usual tip.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis, buses, rickshaws and buggies.
WATER... Not safe to drink. Use special water flask in your hotel room for drinking and brushing teeth.
WHAT TO BUY.. . Ivory articles are admired for their beauty and delicacy; products of papier maché and pieces of embroidery brocades, fur caps, Baluchistan carpets, Sindhi glass-work and other hand-made goods.
WHAT TO WEAR... In winter (October to April), tropical worsted; in summer, rayons, cotton and other washable fabrics. Winter nights sometimes become suddenly cold and a light topcoat should be taken along. Men can use summer weight dinner jacket and black tie for evening functions. Women should bring white cotton formáis.
About four hours by air from Karachi at Lahore is Pakistan’s famous Badshahi (the Royal) Mosque, largest mosque in the world.
Bunder Road, a thoroughfare of Karachi, Pakistan’s clean, modern capital. The Municipal Corporation Building in the background is representative of the local upward reaching architecture.
[161]