NEW HORIZONS
CUBA (Cont.)
torically interesting. There is a traditional fiesta in the colorful Afro-American manner every August. The hunting and fishing around Santiago are excellent. The city is ringed by majestic mountains, a part of the Sierra Maestra range, often called the “Alps of the Tropics.” Guides are available for hunting, fishing and sightseeing. There are many organized excursions and cars are available at reasonable prices.
isle of pines...Seventy-six miles across peaceful and beautiful sea, the Isle of Pines, off Cuba’s southern coast, is believed to be the setting of Stevenson’s novel, “Treasure Island.” It may be reached by daily plane or a delightful steamer voyage that is enchanting by moonlight. In by-gone times the island was a haven for pirates, and legends of buried treasure still exist. The island’s climate is exceptionally healthful. There are wonderful beaches, huge citrus plantations, and the sailing around these waters is the best. The medicinal springs around the Isle of Pines are reputedly excellent. There are good moderately-priced hotels on the island, among them Rocafort Ranch, Santa Rita Hotel and Santa Fe Hotel.
pinar del rio . .. Westward from Havana about 109 miles the province is one of the most beautiful on the Island, and it is here that some of the finest tobacco in the world is grown. There are famous mineral springs at San Diego de los Banos, and there is also the port of Mariel where the Cuban Naval Academy is located. Under construction is Rancho Mundito, a tourist center in the Los Organos Mountains with an elevation of 2,000 feet. Clubhouse, hotel, cabanas, golf and tennis courts are there.
SPECTATOR SPORTS ... Jai-alai, baseball and cockfighting are the three national favorites of Cuba. You can see cock-fighting in the Jesus del Monte quarter almost any time of day or night. Horse racing is popular the year around at Orientale Park. Polo, swimming meets and football are seasonal favorites. The Havana Yacht Club stages an International Star Class Regatta in the last week of January. The St. Petersburg-Havana Sail-Cruiser Race takes place in March, and there are Row Boat races in the bay during June and July. Annual tennis tournaments are held for the Havana Cup at the Vedado Tennis Club.
SPORTS . .. There are many good golf clubs, among them the Country Club of Havana and the Jaimanitas Club. Cards are needed. The Rovers Club opens its links and clubhouse to visitors. The Vedado Tennis Club has the best courts in Havana; cards may be obtained. Swimming is, of course, wonderful. La Concha, a splendid bathing establishment, is located at Mari-anao, about ten minutes from Havana. Varadero is 40 minutes by plane (CUBANA—daily service) from the capital with five miles of white sandy beach. In Havana, The Nacional has an excellent salt water pool. There are fresh-water pools at the Country Club and the Casino Deportivo. Fishing is superb. You can catch big game fish north and south of Havana. There are swordfish, marlin, tuna, snapper, barracuda, in fact, some
700 varieties of fish in Cuban waters. There are charter boats of all types available. Night fishing off Cojimar is an exciting experience. Boats, complete with bait, ice and man-power, can be hired.
Hunting: There is good deer hunting around Candelaria in Pinar del Rio Province, and near Trinidad in Las Villas Province. Wild boar roam the Cayo Romano near Cabarien and wild fowl and guinea hen are plentiful in Santiago. You may bring shotguns with you and get licenses at the Cuban Tourist Commission. The fee is $7.20. There are excellent hunting guides available.
THEATRES . .. There are many theatres in Havana. The largest is the National at San Rafael and Central Park which has musicals, dramas and motion pictures. The Principal de la Comedia shows only Spanish plays. Vaudeville and Spanish plays can be seen at Teatro Marti.
TIME . . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... Tipping is done on the same basis as at home.
TOURIST TAXES ... 80 cents landing tax.
WATER . . . The water in Cuba is safe to drink in all but the most primitive little towns. Bottled water is available and inexpensive. Take chlorine tablets with you on long trips.
WHAT TO BUY . .. Havana is a marvelous shopping center for luxury and novelty items. Don’t believe all you hear about the bargains obtainable; the prices aren’t substantially lower than those at home. Tops on the list are French perfumes, bottled locally and slightly lower in cost. Buy them only in reputable shops and be sure the bottles are sealed. Customs regulations vary according to the brand. Cuban rums and liquors and cordials are one of the best buys. You may take one gallon made up of as many different kinds as you want, out of the country. Havana cigars—100 is the limit—are a must. Leather goods, alligator skin particularly, are very good and quite reasonable. The better skins are soft and pliable; cheaper varieties tend to be stiff and dry. You can get almost anything you want in Havana shops, but these are your best buys.
WHAT TO WEAR... Remember, Havana is a cosmopolitan city. Slacks and shorts are not acceptable away from the beach and country clubs. Cool, dark cottons are best during the day. Black cocktail dresses after five. You can go as gala as you wish after dark. White jackets are correct formal attire for men. Lightweight casual sport clothes are good for men in the day time, but leave the loud shirts at home. Most Cuban men go without ties in the daytime, wear them at night. White and natural linen suits are acceptable all the time. Bring a raincoat to Cuba between May and November. Comfort without too much informality is the keynote in Havana. Women shouldn’t wear slacks on the golf course. Conservative shorts are all right for tennis. Modified for coolness, traditional riding clothes are required. Wear what you wish for hunting and fishing.
Church of San Cristobal in Havana, often called Columbus Cathedral, reputed for many years to be the resting place for the remains of America’s discoverer.
[72]
Lunch on the terrace of the Kawama Club at Varadero Beach with the beautiful beach and the crystal clear ocean for a background.