NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRALIA (Cont.)
is a city of homes. Almost everyone has at least a half acre of ground. There is racing, of course, bathing at nearby beaches, cricket and tennis and golf as well as many other diversions.
Brisbane ... the capital of Queensland is a modern subtropical city with a population of 1,106,269. The hotels include Lennon’s, the Carlton, the Gresham and the National. From Brisbane it is quite easy to visit Great Barrier Reef with its thousands of small coral islands. Bundaberg is the port of embarkation for the reef. For further details, see Sydney.
northern territory is really the world’s “largest frontier.”
Here are the huge cattle ranches, the true wide open spaces.
Much of the territory is undeveloped, but year after year civilization encroaches a bit more. Darwin is the capital of Northern Territory. If you really want to see Australian bushmen in their native habitat you must go into Central Australia.
SPECTATOR SPORTS ... Horse racing is practically the national sport. There are three courses in the Melbourne area.
Flemington where the Melbourne Cup is run, accommodates 100,000 people. Moonee Valley is four miles from town. Caulfield is about seven miles away, and has an excellent turf track. A new course is being built at Sandown Park which will be the most modern on the continent. There are mutuals and bookmakers. Greyhound racing every night in the week at one or the other of five tracks very near the city. Trotting races, Saturday nights, October to April at Royal Show Grounds, Ascot Vale ten minutes from town. Cricket matches are played at the Melbourne Cricket Ground said to be the largest enclosed sporting oval in the world. Football is played every Saturday afternoon during football season. Tennis events (and remember, the Australians won the Davis’ Cup) are held at Kooyong Courts.
There are ice skating carnivals at the St. Moritz rink in St. Kilda.
Boxing and wrestling matches, Wednesday and Friday nights at West Melbourne Stadium.
SPORTS . . . Golf, the Royal Melbourne Golf Club which
has a championship course, is one of the best on the Continent; cards are necessary. Yarra Bend National Park Golf Club, a few miles from the city, is open to the public. Cards are needed at Huntingdale, Commonwealth and Metropolitan. The St. Kilda Tennis Club opens its courts to the public, but cards are needed to play at Kooyong Courts. Horseback riding around Botanic Gardens and Government is pleasant and there are horses to hire. There are many indoor swimming pools, or you may swim at one of the nearby beach resorts, such as St. Kilda, Frankston or further along the coast at Torquay. You may roller skate at Wirth’s Olympia or ice skate at the St. Moritz. Boating on the Yarra River is a favorite pastime; boats may be hired from MacCauley’s Kew Boatsheds day or evening.
THEATRES . . . Grand opera and ballet at His Majesty’s on Exhibition Street. English and American plays are performed at the Comedy, Exhibition Street. There is a two-a-day vaudeville at the Tivoli. Native Repertory Theatre gives performances at Melbourne Repertory Theatre and at the Melbourne Little Theatre.
TIME . . . Same time as at Sydney.
TIPPING . . . Tip about ten to fifteen per cent.
TRANSPORTATION .. . There are trams, buses and taxis.
WATER ... Safe to drink and good tasting.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Australian woolens and blankets are the best possible buy. Australian Opals are beautiful and cost less than they would at home. Among souvenirs the little Koala bears have the charm of our teddy bears. Miniature kangaroos are amusing as are tiny hand-carved boomerangs.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Remember the Australian seasons are the reverse of ours. There are no extremes of hot or cold. In their summer you will need light weight clothes such as you would wear in any city at home. Other seasons of the year require appropriate attire. Take dinner clothes, raincoat, walking shoes. Melbourne is very much like Boston, so use your own discretion.
The Cathedral of St. Mary’s left is one of the many fine churches in Sydney. Most all religious denominations are represented.
Adelaide (above) is the capital of South Australia, a well planned bity with good beaches and hill resorts nearby.
Cruises and tours of all kinds are available to the vast vacation area of Great Barrier Reef. The group above is near Day Dream Island.
Youngsters love to have their picture taken with koalas, the little native bears that live entirely in trees.
[175]