NEW HORIZONS
SWEDEN (Cont.)
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Racing is very popular in and around Stockholm. The season begins in May and lasts through the summer. Ulriksdal is the principal track. Trotting races are popular at the Stockholm Trotting Club during most of the year. Soccer is the national spectator sport. Athletic and gymnastic exhibitions are held all year around at Stockholm’s many gymnasiums. Yachting races and tennis matches enjoy seasonal popularity.
SPORTS . . . Sweden is an active sportsman’s paradise. The Swedes are an athletic, outdoor people and facilities are of the finest. The lakes and mountain streams offer excellent fishing. Salmon and salmon trout, pike and perch are in abundance. There are tuna and other big game fishing on the west coast. Golf is nationally popular. There are good courses throughout the country. Kevinge and Saltsjobaden are the best near Stockholm. The courses and club houses are open to tourists. Good tennis courts are found all over Sweden. Stockholm has indoor courts for year around play. Yachting is popular and fashionable in the Stockholm archipelago. Sailing and swimming are favorite summer sports. There are numerous indoor pools connected with the Swedish baths in Stockholm. The beaches on the archipelago are lovely. The mountains in the north are a hiker’s paradise. The end of summer is the best time of year. Guides are available. As in all Scandinavian countries, everybody skis in Sweden. Accommodations, skis and guides are available at moderate rates. Other polar winter sports include skating and tobogganing. There are exhibition skating matches in Stockholm.
THEATRES . . . The Royal Dramatic Theatre season is from August to June. Performances of plays, musicals and operettas are given. The “China” Variety Revue Theatre has a continental revue program from April to August. The Skansens Friluftsteater is a beautiful open air theatre. See the daily paper for times and programs. Tickets are available at the box office and through most hotels.
TIME . . . Six hours ahead of New York Standard Time.
TIPPING .. . The hotels have a service charge of approximately 15 per cent. Restaurants do not add a service charge, so tip 10 per cent of the bill at least. Hat check girls and washroom attendants get 25 ore. Follow the 10 per cent rule for cab drivers. Tip porters at least 50 ore a bag.
TRANSPORTATION .. . There are taxis, buses and cars for hire in Stockholm. Longer trips may be made by bus, trains, or by air. Cars for long trip's may also be hired with or without a chauffeur. Fares are reasonable. Most Swedish people travel second class. The accommodations are as good as many American railways.
WATER . . . The water is safe to drink in every town in Sweden. Bottled water may be necessary on prolonged hiking trips and fishing expeditions. Inquire at the local village.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Glass and crystal are your best buys, especially the beautiful etched Orrefors glass. Pottery, pewter and silverware are excellent. Cutlery made of famous Swedish steel can be bought quite reasonably and should be high on your list. English and Swedish textiles are of very fine quality. Modern furniture is tempting, too. But remember the shipping problem. Smaller pieces can be dismantled for shipping. There are many bargains to be had in various native handicrafts.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . The Stockholm winters are only a little cooler than northeastern United States. Bring woolens and tweeds. Sweden is cool in the summer, too. Leave the lightest summer clothes at home. You’ll need a topcoat the year around, for the nights are very chilly. Raincoats are a must. Sport clothes in the country and for general sightseeing wear are correct. Simple black dresses or dressy suits will be all you need in Stockholm. Formal clothes are rarely worn except at gala openings and banquets and when dancing in first-class restaurants. Flannels and sport jackets and business suits for evening are correct for men. Rugged, simple clothes are worn in the mountains. The Swedish are conservative about clothes, so wear conventional outfits for active sports.
Only 45 minutes by little white steamer from Stockholm is Drottningholm, the King’s summer palace. This view is of the elegent Palace Gardens.
Reindeer in roundup in Sweden’s Lap-land. Vast expanses and majestic mountains are also characteristic of the untouched beauty of this “Land of the Midnight Sun.”
Burmeister House, a typical old Swedish house, is the headquarters of the Tourist Association in Vis by, the seaside resort on the island of Gotland in the Baltic Sea southeast of Stockholm.
Quiet charm and Old Swedish cultural traditions still grace the parishes of the Dalecarlia region. This Djosgarden homestead is near Mora on Lake Siljan, about 225 miles northwest of Stockholm.
[45]