NEW HORIZONS
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS (Cont.)
GAMBLING . . . There are two tracks, one in the city and one just outside. Charity Sweepstakes are held at these tracks every three months. There is Jai Alai. Cockfighting every Sunday and legal holidays.
LANGUAGE ... English is generally spoken.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES ... There are excellent laundries and dry cleaning establishments, where you can have work done in a few hours.
LIQUOR . . . Tuba, the native drink, is made from the fermented juice of the palm. The Philippine beer is very good. In fact many of the G.I.’s thought it better there than at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Wonderful doctors and good public and private hospitals.
MOTION PICTURES . . . The Ideal, the Times, the Lyric, Capitol, the State, Rialto and the Avenue are the biggest. They show the latest American films and are all air-conditioned.
MUSIC . . . The Philippine Army Band renders a public performance every Sunday afternoon on the Luneta.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . There are several night clubs in Manila. Among the most patronized are the Manila Hotel Winter Garden, the Sky Room in the Jai Alai Building and the Riviera. These are all air-conditioned and songs are provided by radio and screen stars. The Metro Garden and Grill, Sportsman, the Moonlit Terrace, Starlit Deck and The Tower are also very popular.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . .. Manila Hotel, or at 270 Plaza Cervantes (Tel. 2-79-91).
RELIGION . . . While the country is predominantly Catholic, they have churches of all denominations, including the Philippine Independent Church (Aglibay Church) which is a modified form of Catholicism.
RESTAURANTS.. .Some of the better ones are: the Selecta, Aristocrat, New Europe, Bahay Kubo, Astoria and Dencia's (Escolta).
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Tabora, Central, Quiapo and Yangco Market are the shopping districts where you can get wonderful things made in the Philippines.
SIGHTSEEING . . . There are very many interesting places that you can visit in the Philippines. Manila has some interesting sights. You should see the Malacanan Palace, now the official residence of the President of the Philippines which used to be
the residence of the later Spanish and American Governors-General. Santo Tomas University built in 1582 and formally opened in 1611 and considered older than Harvard University. The old Bilibid Prison where one can buy artistic handicraft made by prison inmates, Fort Santiago which is an old dungeon built by the Spaniards and used by the Japanese as a prison and torture chamber. Just outside the city of Manila in Las Pinas is a church which has the famous Bamboo Organ reputed to be the only one in the world. And you may want to see the Manila North Cemetery and the Chinese Cemetery. Stop at the residence of General Aguinaldo which is filled with relics. A drive of about an hour and a half will take you to Clark Field, the American base which is the biggest in the islands. In about one hour by plane you can reach most of the Philippine resorts, where there is wonderful swimming. Some of the places to go to (which are much cooler than Manila) are Iloilo, Lanao, and Zamboanga. Baguio is also just an hour away by plane, as is Tagaytay City, a lake resort with a volcano right in the middle of the lake. The Manila Hotel has a branch here called the Taal Vista Lodge.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . .. Polo, baseball, soccer, basketball, cockfighting (the birds have knives tied on to them for spurs), boxing, yachting regattas.
SPORTS . .. Golf, tennis, swimming at the Manila Club, sailing, fishing, boating, boxing.
THEATRES .. . The theatres are the Dalisay, the Life and the Opera House. While you might not quite understand the dialect, it is interesting to see these shows.
TIME ... 16 hours ahead of United States Pacific Coast Time.
TIPPING ... Tip slightly less than you do at home.
TOURIST TAXES . . . None.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Good taxi service, buses and jitneys. A lot of jeeps were converted into jeepneys after the war.
WATER . . . Water is excellent.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Embroidery, Panama hats, all sorts of carving, bamboo work, jewelry, linens and textiles.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Both men and women should take many dresses and suits made of rayon sharkskin, because they stand up better in the terrific heat. Cottons crumple too quickly. In the evenings at the clubs and best hotels, men wear black trousers and white sharkskin dinner jackets.
A load of stripped palm fronds are about to be loaded into a stolid but willing carabao on the road to Tagaytay.
The ruins of the Manila Cathedral originally built in 1581 and many times destroyed.
Filipino students are shown here in front of Santo Tomas University, Manila, which during the war was used as an internment camp for American and Allied nationals.
[152]