IT’S ALL PLAY FOR YOU
When You Leave the Work for Your Travel Agent
There are few things in this world that are more fun than traveling. Yet there are a number of people who don’t realize that the best way to go about making the most of their travel time and money is to first go to a Travel Agent. A Travel Agent is an expert in the complicated details of arranging travel . . . figuring out routes and itineraries, reservations and costs. Experienced travelers use a Travel Agent’s many services because he can get confirmed hotel accommodations and other reservations in advance—so important in countries where space is limited and it’s such a convenience to have all your travel details handled for you in advance.
And remember, it saves you Time and Money when you utilize the services of a Travel Agent. Travel Agents sell on a commission basis paid by the companies they are authorized to represent, and since they represent a wide variety of transportation, hotel and tour organizations in all price brackets, they can give you unprejudiced advice on filling your individual
needs and wishes. A Travel Agent knows best how to keep your travel costs down.
Often the Travel Agent can save you money by safeguarding you against mistakes and blunders that are not only embarrassing but costly. Also he oftentimes knows of travel, tour or sightseeing bargains that would otherwise not be known to you, or that are purchasable here, but not at the countries you plan to visit.
Tours—or pre-arranged travel plans—are often the answer to seeing the most, and doing the most—at lowest cost—at your destination. You will be delighted with the wide choice of escorted or independent inclusive-cost tours which your Travel Agent offers for almost any destination you choose to visit. Oftentimes, using established travel-plans as a base, the Agent can modify or expand them to exactly suit your wishes.
The trip you are making can be a high point in your life. Let your Travel Agent show you how.
How to Clear U.S. Customs the Easiest Way
Half the fun of traveling is acquiring duty-free “bargains.” And your purchases up to the value of $200, $300 or even $500—depending upon the circumstances —are exempt from duty if (1) they are for your personal or household use; (2) you declare them properly on your arrival in the United States; (3) your trip was not made just to buy them; (4) you didn’t order them ahead of time, so bear this in mind when ordering from a representative of a foreign bootmaker or tailor, soliciting orders in the United States.
Purchases Up to $500 Duty-free
Ordinarily, you have to be outside the country for at least 48 hours to qualify for the $200 exemption. You get an additional $300 exemption (total $500) if you have been abroad at least 12 days. (Allowed once each six months).
Your exemptions may include the cost of alterations and of dutiable repairs on anything you took abroad— such as your car, radio, watch, etc. But remember this: Your exemptions are lost on any article which you fail to declare on your return from the trip on which you acquired it.
Liquor and Cigars
You can bring into the country the equivalent of 1 U.S. gallon of alcoholic beverages—but only if destined for a “wet” State; and not more than 100 cigars.
No Exemptions on Some Items
Be sure you know exactly what you can bring into the
United States. There are some things which no one can bring into the country. Some other articles always require payment of duty or the internal revenue tax.
Many kinds of fruits, vegetables, plants, meats and pets cannot be permitted through the customs unless they meet the requirements of the United States Department of Agriculture or the United States Public Health Service.
The advice of your customs officials is helpful when you want to bring back articles bearing a trade mark— especially watches, perfumes, and accordions.
Whafs its “Value”!
To the customs, the value of an article is its current sales price. Your sales slips or receipts can be your proof. If bringing back something that was given to you, put down as closely as you can its fair market value. But in any case, don’t undervalue anything you acquired abroad! You’ll find your customs officer an authority on all kinds of merchandise, including art objects and souvenirs.
Can You Prove Prior Possession ?
Naturally, you don’t want to pay duty on personal possessions you took with you from this country. To be safe, register any questionable article at your Custom House before beginning your trip. Such things as personal and household effects, professional books, tools of your trade or occupation, or any valuable article (such as a watch or camera of foreign manufacture) should be registered. In addition, there are special regulations covering such items as wild bird
[iii]