Singatol
FIJI ISLANDS
P Koro Levu
Levuka
0 FIJI ISLANDS
VITI LEVU ISLAND \
• Nausori
Nandi Airfield	Suva
• Novua atoka' _________
0 Mbengga
o	a
WEATHER IN SUVA—Lat. S18°08'—Alt. Approx, sea level JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
Low	74°	74°	74°	73°	71°	69°	68°	68°	69°	70°	71°	73°
High	86°	86°	86°	84°	82°	80°	79°	79°	80°	81°	83°	85°
Average	80°	80°	80°	79°	77°	75°	74°	74°	75°	76°	77°	79°
Rainfall	23	22	24	23	21	18	17	19	19	18	19	21

LOCATION . . . This group of about 322 islands, totaling over 7,000 square miles, lies in the South Pacific east of northern Australia. Suva, however, is nearly 2,000 air miles from Sydney in southern Australia.
POPULATION... Estimated at 293,700, including more than 6,500 Europeans.
SIZE . . . 7,083 square miles. Viti Levu, the largest island, with 4,053 square miles, is smaller than Connecticut.
GOVERNMENT . . . The islands in the group constitute the British Crown Colony of Fiji.
HOW TO GET THERE... By Pan American Clipper from the United States West Coast about 28 hours (elapsed time). Actually the time becomes a day later when you cross the International Date Line. By ship, Suva is reached in about 14 days.
The only island in the Fiji group that the tourist is apt to see is Viti Levu, largest of the group. It is at the southeastern end of this island where Suva, capital of the group, is located. Viti Levu is about 135 miles long with an airport at either end.
A hundred or so years ago the Fijians leaned a bit towards cannibalism, but with the advent of the missionaries, they turned Christian. Tourist life and interests center around the Grand Pacific Hotel at Suva, a lovely place which is on the harbor surrounded by its own gardens. The atmosphere is British Colonial, with Whisky and Soda as the sundowner drink. The Grand Pacific is large and comfortable, with verandahs running completely around it on which you sit and have breakfast, screened from your neighbors. (Rates about $5 American Plan).
There are now more East Indians in Fiji than native Fijians, a fact which adds color. Their presence is felt at the numerous bazaars (which line the main center of Suva) in which brasses, sandalwood, carved ivories and other East Indian merchandise is for sale.
You should drive along the King’s Road which encircles the coast of this tropical island to the North, and the Queen’s Road which bands it to the South. On your drive you will see picturesque South Sea villages, with thatched huts, palm lined beaches, sugar cane and pineapple plantations. Native Fijians with wiry bushy hair which practically stands on end, are met along the roadside. In the East Indian villages, you will find women wearing the traditional saris, and the men in wrapped white turbans. The Fijians and East Indians live in separate communi-
ties, rarely intermingle and manage to get on all right. Korolevu (which is about midway between Nandi Airport and Suva on the south shore road) is certainly the spot for anyone who really is serious about getting away from it all. There is an enchanting guest house with small cabins right on the beach. Here you may stay for luncheon or for weeks. The swimming is excellent, the fishing marvelous, there are horses to ride and a wonderful deep blue sea to look at. Truly a dream spot. The price of all this peace and quiet is about $4 American plan.
All of Fiji is rather like a picture postcard. The colors are brilliant, the flowers vivid and ever present. Even the uniforms of the Fijian Military Police are picturesque. The kilt-like skirts cut in points come just below the knees and are topped by long sleeved tunics worn inside the kilt or skirt. The Fijians are athletic, and it is quite a sight to see a Fiji Rugby team play barefoot. Tribal dances take place on special occasions and then are usually performed by natives from one of the smaller outlying islands. Especially notable are the Fire Walking ceremonies of Mbengga Island, southwest of Suva, where Fijians baffle onlookers by treading barefoot over red-hot stones without apparent injury.
Suva is about the only place in the world where you can have a pair of shorts or slacks made almost while you wait. Linen suits are especially good buys here.
You can see everything there is to see in three or four days. But be sure to make hotel reservations well in advance, especially if you go between May and October, the best season.
This view shows part of a typical South Sea village seen along the roads that lead around Viti Levu Island from Suva, the Fiji capital.
[166]