NEW HORIZONS
JAMAICA (Cont.)
Calypso music, sea and river fishing, sailing and undersea explorations among the other attractions it has to offer; such as tennis, motion pictures, boating and horseback riding.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Cricket and football, horse racing, polo, yachting regattas, tennis and golf tournaments, boxing, cycle racing.
SPORTS. . . Golf at many clubs, cards can be arranged. Some of the best are the Liguanea Golf Club, 2y2 miles from Kingston; Constant Spring Golf Club, the Amateur Open Championship of Jamaica is played over the course annually, usually in February; The Manchester Club, oldest course in Jamaica. Tennis clubs include The Manchester Club among others. Most of the courts are grass, but there are some earth and concrete. Polo, horseback riding. There are several stables where you can hire horses for any length of time, and there are many beautiful bridle-paths. Yachting, the Royal Jamaica Yacht Club holds annual regattas. Swimming is a popular pastime. In addition to the lovely beaches, Kingston has several fine sea water pools. Rafting is an exciting sport and safe because you are always in the hands of a skillful native pilot. Mountain hiking, trap shooting, and of course fishing. There is some of the finest fishing, both deep-sea and river, to be had; Black River, on the South Coast and the mouth of the Martha Brae near Falmouth in the north
are two excellent fishing spots. Here you can catch Tarpon and King Fish. In the rivers, mountain mullet, hognose mullet, are to be had. Fly-fishing is not too satisfactoiy. Visitors should bring tackle similar to that used in Florida. No fishing licenses are required and with few exceptions, you can fish in most rivers.
THEATRES . . . The Ward Theatre in Kingston, where plays are produced.
TIME . . . Same as United States, Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING .. . About the same as at home, ten to 15 per cent.
TOURIST TAXES ... 10/-($ 1.50).
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis and cars to hire are available. There are set taxis rates, but you are advised to ask the driver beforehand what the fare will be. Motor buses, drive-yourself cars and hackney carriages.
WATER... Most modern pipe line supply.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Rum, Scotch, tweeds, English doeskin, Kent brushes, Rolls razors, Royal Doulton and Spode china, leather goods, woolens, French perfumes and toilet waters, are among the best buys.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Light summer clothes are worn the year around. Light suits for men and women. No overcoats are needed. Better take evening clothes for the night life in Kingston and the resorts. Lots of swim suits, and beach attire.
18th Century cane chute near Falmouth on the north shore. Ruins of old sugar plantations date from slavery days.
Evening sailing at Montego Bay. Sailboats are available at the pier in front of Doctor’s Cave.
Interesting coral formations and shells are sold from dugout canoes. Jamaica is famous for its beautiful white sand beaches and crystal clear water.
Tourists enjoy refreshments at the Garden Terrace of Good Hope Ranch, one of the many fine resorts on Jamaica.
[80]