NEW HORIZONS
BOLIVIA (Cont.)
MUSIC . . . Famous musicians can be heard in the local theatres. There is the Bolivian Sinphonic Orchestra. Also on some holidays the natives play their music in the stadiums or public places with their own musical instruments.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Newest and smartest spot is El Gallo de Oro, a few minutes’ taxi ride from downtown. Good orchestra for dancing. The Sucre Palace Hotel has a night club. The Morocco is another night club.
PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS’ OFFICE . . . W. R. Grace y Cia (Bolivia) at Mercado 316 (Tel. 3331) are agents for Panagra in La Paz.
RELIGION .. .There are many Catholic cathedrals. Churches of other denominations include the Seventh Day Mission, Evangelist, Emanuel, Ebreos.
RESTAURANTS . . . The Corso has good picantes, also pheasant, partridge, fish and an extensive selection of German dishes. Daiquiri is famous for its partillada, mixed grill over charcoal. Creole dishes featured at Club Peruano. Steaks and such at the Gallo de Oro.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The shopping center is the Calle Comercio. Shops are filled with vicuna coats, alpaca, gold and silver jewelry, filagree work, porcelain. The Central Market is held daily. But the Sunday market on The Plaza San Francisco is the most colorful. The markets are run by Cholas, Indian women who wear those fantastic derby hats. Calle Sagarnaga is the Street of the Indians, and here everything imaginable is for sale. Everywhere you will find Ekeko, the Indian god of good luck. He comes in plaster with a load of household items on his back and a bright knitted cap.
SIGHTSEEING ... In and around La Paz the Indian market is a must. The cathedral is one of the largest churches in all South America. A trip around the city is interesting (each section represents a stage of history) to see its various architectures. You don’t have to go anywhere to see snow-capped Illimani, the mountain which towers over the city. It is wonderful from Monticulo a small park in new La Paz where you get a magnificent view of the city. The Prado with its promenade is the pride of the city. Visit, of course, the Tiahuanaco Museum mentioned before.
Cochabamba is the resort town to which Bolivians from La Paz and other spots go. It is located in a garden valley one of the most fertile spots in the country. Indian traffic cops stand on raised platforms at street intersections wearing bulging trousers and kepis. The old Spanish houses have overhanging tiled eaves.
Best hotel is the Gran Hotel Cochabamba, complete with swimming pool and tennis courts . . . Cochabamba was the home of the late Simon Patino, the Tin King of Bolivia. He built Los Portales, a palace near the edge of the city set in grounds as large as a park. The roof is of solid copper. The Patino family recently presented Los Portales to the University for use as a museum. El Cortijo is a lovely spot five minutes from the Hotel, with excellent bar and restaurant, crystal clear swimming pool and tennis courts. Fifteen miles from the city is Pairumani, the Palacio estate of five thousand acres with model farms, gardens, cattle breeding establishments and a magnificent house. The shopping center of Cochabamba is equal to that of La Paz. But its magnificent climate is its main feature. A trip to the top of the hill of San Sebastian in the middle of the city affords wonderful view of the town with its red tile roofs, pink churches.
tiahuanaco ... Sixty miles from La Paz are the famous pre-Inca ruins on the shores of Lake Titicaca, the world’s highest lake. The tall quaint ruins which have defied the research of generations of archeologists stand isolated. These impressive ruins can be seen on a one-day excursion from La Paz.
the yungas are deep, narrow valleys descending sharply from the high plateau. The climate here is subtropical. The change from the rarefied air of La Paz to the warm depths is unforgettable. The Yungas are accessible from La Paz by car.
copacabana ... This is a famous shrine visited every August by pilgrims from all parts of the country. Its main feature is the church which has the Virgin of Copacabana carved in the sixteenth century. Copacabana is on Lake Titicaca but it is necessary to stay overnight. There is a hotel operated by the government and one run by the Exprinter Travel Service.
sucre . . . the former, and still official capital of Bolivia, is known as the white city because all its churches have white towers. It has a magnificent clear climate and not so much altitude. It has a wonderful old university, interesting public buildings and an air of quiet charm. You can fly from La Paz to most of the places mentioned here.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer, football and basketball are played in the stadium at Miraflores.
SPORTS . . . There are fine trout streams and good lake fishing in many parts of Bolivia. Skiing is excellent near La Paz, but over 17,000 feet above sea level. A new golf course with grass greens and fairways has just been built about one-half hour from downtown La Paz, at Montecilla. Tennis is popular, but short-time visitors should be careful because of the altitude. Hunting and shooting are good in the Yungas and near Cochabamba. And there is big game hunting in the wilds of Eastern Bolivia.
TIME .. . One hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . No tipping in taxis. To porters, Bs. 10 per each bag. Messenger Boys, Bs. 10. There is 10 percent for the service charge added to your hotel bill.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Applicable only to air transportation equivalent to U/i percent of transportation cost within the country and 5% for international transportation.
TRANSPORTATION .. . There are plenty of taxis around La Paz and they are cheap. There are several lines of streetcars between the central city and outlying areas. But they are crowded and unpleasant. Autocarries are a form of bus.
WATER . . . Only bottled water should be drunk throughout Bolivia
WHAT TO BUY . . . Vicuna coats, alpaca, silver jewelry especially the jointed silver fish. Porcelain, handloomed blankets and rag dolls in native costumes. Gold filagree and the little god Ekeko, colored shawls and woven hats.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In La Paz it is cool in the morning and late in the afternoon. Take suits and dresses such as those worn in the United States in the Fall. A topcoat is an absolute mud. And it is wise to take a topcoat when starting out for a day’s trip. The mercury is temperamental in this city in the Andes, and takes frequent and unexpected dives. So have a warm bathrobe, bedroom slippers. A hot water bottle is a good idea, too. The same rules of dress apply to men. Wool suits, topcoats, sweaters.
A statue of Murillo, the famous Spanish painter, stands here in the center of the Plaza Murillo in La Paza with the huge cathedral in the background.
[126]