NEW HORIZONS
PUERTO RICO (Cont.)
Tapia Theatre in San Juan. Visiting companies perform here, too.
TIME. . . Puerto Rico is one hour ahead of New York in Standard Time.
TIPPING ... About the same scale as at home. TRANSPORTATION. . . There are many taxis with rates starting at 35 cents. You must set your price first, if using a meterless cab. There are buses, but they are usually crowded. Publico cars which go everywhere on the Island are similar to jitneys which used to be found in many cities in the United States. They are cheap, but often crowded. But they get you there. There are drive-yourself cars for hire.
WATER . . . All the hotels serve bottled spring water from the mountain springs. However, water in down town San Juan and Santurce is potable.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Hand made and embroidered blouses, lingerie, mahogany bowls and souvenirs; men’s linen suits. Don’t forget there’s an internal revenue tax on rum which must be paid at the airport upon departure on direct flights to the United States. You are still in the United States, you know. Woven baskets are inexpensive and beautiful. Bamboo products and furniture made of native woods are good buys.
WHAT TO WEAR ... You never need heavy clothes in San Juan. Bring summer cottons and silks. Some summer dinner and evening things for hotel wear. If you are going into the hills, take a topcoat and some medium weight clothes. Men will need cotton or linen suits, sports jackets, slacks and beach attire. White dinner jackets. Sports clothes are the thing.
Puerto Rico has dozens of palm fringed sunny beaches, and the water is ideal for swimming.
The road to El Yunque leads through the National forest and offers impressive views of mountain jungle scenery.
From the light house at El Morro, Tourists view San Juan and the harbor, a panorama of brilliant color.
The dining terrace of the recently renovated Condado Beach Hotel in San Juan overlooking the ocean.
El Morro is one of the old world fortifications and a site of historical interest near San Juan.
[75]