NEW HORIZONS
CHILE (Cont.)
FLORA .. . Flowers are abundant; a great variation in all the length of the territory. There are some exclusively national specimens in the South where you will find some unexplored woods.
FOOD ... Sea food is famous in Chile. Their lobster dishes are wonderful. Try caldillo de congrio, a fish soup. Shrimp and crab called jaibas. Chupe de Mariscos is superb fish chowder. Chupe de locos is a scallop soup. Cold water sea eels are much better than they sound and are a national favorite. Swordfish steaks flourish everywhere. There is, of course, excellent and cheap beef here, too. The national dishes are in the highly spiced category. Desserts are cool and imaginative. Pineapple with champagne, for instance.
GAMBLING . . . Racing at Club Hipico with pari-mutuels on Sunday, gambling casino at Vina del Mar (Sept. 15-March 15).
LANGUAGE . . . Spanish, of course, is the official language, but the majority of the people in tourist centers speak and understand English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES ... Hotels will furnish the information required and some of them have their own service. Two good dry cleaning companies are Lavatex and Le Grand Chic, which will give you 24-hour service for a 50 per cent surcharge. The ordinary service is 5 days, for suits and shirts.
LIQUOR . . . The native wines are the thing to buy and drink. Tops are Santa Carolina, a white wine, Tarapaca Zavala in the burgundy class. Some Chilean Rieslings are well-known in the States and there are many more brands available. Chilean champagnes are dry and splendid. The wines are all cheap.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are several hospitals, and English-speaking doctors are available in most of them. Two of the good ones are Clinica Santa Maria and Clinica Alemana.
MOTION PICTURES . . . About all of the films shown in the States are shown in the local theatres with the only difference of having titles in Spanish. The best theatres are: the Metro, Bandera, Central, Plaza, and the Rex which is the most modern. If you care to see pictures in Spanish you can go to the Teatro Santiago.
MUSIC . . . There are concerts at the Teatro Municipal with native conductors and frequently big name guest conductors from the United States and Europe. Guitar music is a staple of the country.
NIGHT CLUBS, CABARETS ... The Boite in the Hotel Carrera is very swank as are Oriente and Waldorf. Others are Violin Gitano and Charles. El Sarao, half an hour from center of town, is in an old colonial farmhouse.
PAN AMERICAN-GRACE AIRWAYS’ OFFICE . . . Grace y Cia are agents for Panagra in Santiago. Ticket office at Hotel Carrera (Tel. 82011 and 81961).
RELIGION . . . Chile is a Roman Catholic country. There are other churches however.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS . . . Food in Chile is marvelous and cheap. Hotels Carrera and Crillon have excellent continental food. Oriente is very, very good, especially for lobsters and oysters. La Bahia has long been famous for sea food, also creole specialties. Chez Henri offers high French cuisine and Creole dishes. La Reine Pedauque is a current favorite, European cuisine. Fornoni, downtown, has maintained high standards for forty years. Open air grape arbor at El Parron is fine for summer dining. Danubio Azul has probably most complete menu in Santiago. Les Gourmets features French atmosphere. Chicken and steak are on fixed menu at the Polio Dorado. The Waldorf has American-style counter and American-style food.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Among the best stores in the city are Los Gobelinos, Gath and Chaves, Falabella, Almacenes Paris, Casa Garcia, A La Ville de Nice, Rosenblitt, Casa Muzard and Mitchell & Mitchell. Nearly all these stores have departments for all the things you are looking for. The stores are closed Saturday afternoons, all the feast days; and during the week, they are open from nine to one and three to seven.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Santiago is a beautiful modern city surrounded by snow-capped mountains. You will get the best view of it from Santa Lucia Park, a hill of rock that rises in the middle of the city. It is open to the public from 7 a.m. till midnight, and
is reached by car. There is a restaurant, gardens and a museum. Cerro San Cristobal rises about 1,000 feet above the city, and you dine here at the Restaurant Casino. There is funicular to the summit from which you get a magnificent view. The road to the top is lined with gardens, promenades and monuments. Government House, La Moneda, the residence of the President, is worth a look. The Avenida O’Higgins is the widest and longest street in the city. It is lined with stunning residences. There are pedestrian walks in the center. There are many government buildings, churches and museums worth seeing. The avenue is sometimes called the Alameda.
Try to get invited to a “fundo” or farm for a sample of Chilean life where your host may stage a rodeo for you. Chilean rodeos are different from American ones, but you should see one if you are around in August or September. The cowboys play guitars and the songs are not unlike our westerns. The national dance of Chile, the cueca, is danced to guitar music.
vina del mar . .. The famed beach resort is about 120 miles from the capital and next to the port of Valparaiso. It is reminiscent of the Riviera. Like Monte Carlo, Juan les Pins and Nice.
The Hotel Miramar is open all the year. Swimming pool, and private beaches. The O'Higgins is older and somewhat larger. The Casino is world famous. It is municipally run and thousands of people can be found at the gaming tables. There are excellent restaurants in addition to the hotels. Among them, La Vierreina.
There are races every Saturday at The Sporting Club Race Track at Valparaiso and good golf at The Granadilla Golf Club. Vina del Mar is extremely smart. Wear your newest most chic clothes. Rates at hotels range about $6.50 a day European plan.
Chilean lake country . . . The Chilean Lake country is a must for magnificent scenery and fine sports. Pucon is probably your first stop. It is on Lake Villarica and there is incredibly good trout and salmon fishing. The Villarica volcano is 9,000 feet high and wears a snow crown. The Hotel Pucon is operated by the Chilean State Railways and is fine. Osorno is travel center for the lake district. Here, too is a volcano. There are three good hotels.Burnier, Czava, Espanol, all quite moderate. If you enter Chile from Argentina go by way of Bariloche and enter the lake country at Puella on Lake Todos los Santos. Go by boat to Villarica where the scenery is as fine as the fishing or skiing. The trees, the forests, the fjords, the snow-capped mountains, the crystal lakes, the views, the fishing, the magnificence of the scenery will entrance you. For more information on the Argentine-Chilean lake country, see Argentina.
puyehue . . . This is a hot springs resort on Lake Puyehue with luxurious hotels and baths. There is skiing nearby.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Racing on Sundays at the Club Hipico, one of the show places of South America. Pari-mutuel betting, of course. There is racing in season at Valparaiso, too. Here the Derby is held. A big social event. Soccer is a favorite sport and there are matches throughout the season. There are ski tournaments in the Chilean Andes and in the ski resorts near Santiago. The Chileans are sports lovers, and there is always something to watch.
SPORTS . . . This is the one country in South America where sports take precedence over almost everything else, including sightseeing. You can ski, fish, climb mountains, play golf, tennis, polo.
skiing . . . Near Santiago are Lagunillas and Farellones ski centers popular with Chileans. Both places have ski lodges or “refugios.” There are ski runs, practice slopes.
Portillo is the ski center of the country. Special ski trains and buses run from Santiago. Here is the new Hotel Portillo, which is an eight-story building including a movie theatre, night club, central heating and a hospital. At Portillo there are magnificent trails, tows, chair lifts and a nine-mile ski run. Some of the top instructors in the world are on hand during the July-October season. There is skiing, too, in the Chilean lake region.
fishing .. . Tocopilla in the north of Chile is the spot where world-record broadtail swordfish are caught. Famed all over the world, it is a mecca of fishermen. There are tuna, dolphin to be caught, too. If you prefer fresh water angling the streams and lakes are laden with trout.
[123]