NEW HORIZONS
ALASKA (Cont.)
AP national and international coverage, one weekly newspaper and one radio station.
CURRENCY .. . United States currency used throughout Alaska. Some firms in Juneau and Ketchikan accept Canadian currency at par, others assess current exchange rates.
CUSTOMS AND IMMIGRATION REGULATIONS . . . None for United States citizens. Citizens arriving via the Alaska highway should check with respective officials on arrival.
DRUG STORES . . . Four modern establishments, carrying same lines and stock as drug stores in the states.
FAUNA . . . Principal game in Juneau area includes black and brown bear, mountain goats, deer and moose. Other wildlife includes mink, beaver, marten and wolverine. Waterfowl are abundant.
FLORA . . . Spruce, hemlock, cedar, alders, cottonwood and mountain ash; numerous shrubs, grasses and wild flowers. Cultivated flowers do exceptionally well in this area. The Juneau Garden Club is an excellent organization.
FOOD . . . Almost all food imported and of best grades obtainable. Prices slightly higher than in Seattle.
LANGUAGE ... English is spoken throughout Alaska.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES ... As good as in the United States. Eight-hour service available.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Modern hospital, with latest equipment, operated by the Sisters of St. Ann. There are seven physicians and surgeons, five dentists and two optometrists.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Two theatres. Few first-run pictures are shown.
MUSIC . . . Juneau Concert Association sponsors several concerts annually. There is a city band, but no local symphony.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Music and dancing highlighted at the Bubble Room in the Baranof Hotel. Several smaller cocktail lounges in city. Out-of-town night spots include the Country Club, Mike's Place and the Whing-Ding.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Baranof Hotel (Tel. 106).
RELIGION . . . Virtually all churches and missions are represented.
RESTAURANTS . . . The most popular eating places include the Baranof Hotel, Belle's and Percy's. The above-mentioned out-of-town clubs also are considered excellent. Full-course meals about the same as in the United States. Short orders slightly more expensive.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Modern, well-lighted, well-stocked establishments carrying most nationally-advertised brands. Clothing stores carry a wide selection of both dress and outdoor clothing. Styles current. Sporting goods and photographic stores better stocked than most.
SIGHTSEEING IN AND AROUND JUNEAU . . . After becoming acquainted with the city itself—its shops, waterfront and Territorial Library and Museum—you will want to explore the surrounding region. Situated in a beautiful mountain setting, Juneau is an outstanding point and important center for hunting, fishing and guided tours. Some of the most inspiring scenery in Alaska can be seen within a short radius of the city. Actually, Juneau lies in the Heart of Alaska’s vacation land, amid towering mountains, primeval forest, inland seas and majestic glaciers.
Within a short distance from the city can be found large black, brown and grizzly bears, moose, deer and mountain goat. (Bear season closes June 20, opens September 1). Sport fishing is one of the great attractions of the area and includes stream and lake fishing for cutthroat, steelhead, Dolly Varden and rainbow trout. In the sheltered ocean waterways, there are king salmon, silver salmon, halibut and deep-sea bass. A salmon derby conducted late in July of each year attracts many participants. Persons wishing specific information about the derby should write the Juneau Chamber of Commerce since rules, dates, etc., vary from year to year. Local guides and boatmen are available to take parties of all kinds into the surrounding country on hunting, fishing and sightseeing trips. Persons wishing to make arrangements for hunting and fishing parties should write early for guides and vessels. Letters should be addressed to the Fish & Wildlife Service, Juneau.
From the heart of the city, roads lead to such scenic spots as Silver Bow Basin, Auke Lake, Mendenhall Glacier and Eagle River. There also are many trails for hiking. Two of the trails lead to the summits of Mt. Roberts, 3,180 ft., and Mt. Juneau, 3,567 ft.
A 13-mile bus or taxi trip on Glacier Highway will take you to Mendenhall Glacier, a river of ice which is almost two miles wide. A strange sight will greet you. A raw glacier moraine and remnants of a buried forest sheared off by the advancing ice and later exposed when the glacier retreated. Trails on either side of the glacier lead to points where you can look down into the deep crevasses. A camera is a good accessory on this trip.
Within a short boat trip or flight from the city is Taku Lodge, a modern resort which is attracting visitors from all parts of the world. Scenic highlights of the Taku Lodge trip include Taku Glacier, Hole-in-the-Wall Glacier and Twin Glacier Lake.
Other outstanding side trips from Juneau include cruises or flights to Tracey Arm, a narrow fjord rimmed with glaciers, and Glacier Bay National Monument, one of the most spectacular glacial regions in the world. Sightseeing flights over the Juneau Ice Cap also are recommended.
Visits to adjacent communities should be taken, if time permits. Suggested sights to see include the Sitka National Monument, Russian relics, St. Michael’s Cathedral and Mt. Edge-cumbe, near Sitka, former capital of the Territory; and Denver Glacier, Reid Falls, relics of the “gold rush” days and Lake Bennett, near Skagway.
Among the many attractions found elsewhere in the Territory, Mt. McKinley National Park is a must for the Alaskan visitor. The park is accessible by railroad or airplane from Anchorage or Fairbanks. Within the park are 91 miles of road, and you will want to visit the beautiful Wonder Lake and Camp Eielson. Saddle horses, pack trips and guide service are available. The park is considered the most scenic spot on the continent, and contains the continent’s highest peak, 20,300-foot Mt. McKinley. It has been estimated that 34 species of animals and 112 kinds of birds are found within the park. The Alaska Railroad operates a modern 84-room hotel, with rates ranging from $4.50 up, in the park.
Other Alaska trips which should not be missed include those to Katmai National Monument on the volcano-studded Alaskan Peninsula. Northern Consolidated Airlines last year established fishing camps in the heretofore closed lakes and streams of the monument, which is home to the largest rainbow trout and grayling in the world. Located southeast of Anchorage, this section of Alaska can be seen only on Northern Consolidated Tours.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Baseball, softball, basketball and tennis are played in season. Owing to inclement fall weather, football is not played.
SPORTS . .. Fishing and hunting opportunities are described under sightseeing in and around Juneau.
TIME . . . Juneau observes Pacific Standard Time, although it is actually in the Yukon Time zone. Fairbanks and Anchorage are on Alaska Time, two hours earlier than PST. Nome is in the Bering Sea Time zone, three hours earlier than PST.
TIPPING . . . Same amounts and percentages as in the United States.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Three taxi firms and two bus lines operate within the city. Yellow Cab meets all incoming Pan American Clippers. Rates are reasonable.
WATER . . . Pure and good tasting.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Parkas, wood and ivory carvings, totem poles, whalebone baskets and other Alaska-made products. There are several curio stores, and buyers should be careful to determine from dealers that their purchases are genuine native handicraft. Fur garments should be bought only from established firms.
WHAT TO WEAR... In Juneau you wear what you would in any city at home. Dress clothes are not needed since there are few formal functions. Parkas should not be worn in Juneau. Slacks, however, are in order. Wool suits, tweeds, sweaters, rainwear and outdoor clothing are required if sightseeing trips are planned.
[140]