NEW HORIZONS
SCOTLAND (Cont.)
Oban (Great Western, Alexandra, hotels). This is a fine Scottish resort town, the chief yachting center of the North, and the base for those who wish to visit the Hebrides, and also take the steamer ride around the Island of Mull.
From Oban go northward on the road running beside Loch Linnhe to Ballachulish, at the foot of Glencoe, scene of the sinister murder of the Clan MacDonald, in 1692. Nearby is Fort William with Ben Nevis, highest spot in the British Isles. Here the road runs beside the canal and series of lochs (including Loch Ness of sea serpent fame), that runs right across the country, from Fort William to Inverness. This modern, pleasing little city on the banks of the River Ness may be considered the capital of the romantic Highlands, and like so many other Scottish areas was the scene of much fighting. (Hotel Caledonian). Macbeth’s castle once stood in the midst of Inverness, the scene of a stormy past. Nearby is the battlefield of Culloden, where the Highlanders made their last stand against the English in 1746. You may see the names of the Clans on some of the grave-stones of these gallant dead. To the West from Inverness, the country is wild, the scenery more rugged and the Highlands themselves more sparcely inhabited.
From Inverness Eastwards, some 15 miles, lies the town of Nairn, and Cawdor Castle, still approached by a draw-bridge over its moat. Further to the East along the coast is Elgin, with its ruined cathedral, and farther yet we come to the mouth of the River Spey. This is the center of the finest salmon fishing in all Scotland. The counties of Ross and Cromarty are the heart of the best deer forests in Scotland.
There are two roads to Aberdeen—one through the resorts and seaside villages of Lossie, Banff; and the other through the inland route of Keith, Huntley and Inverurie. All of these places having their own particular items of interest.
Aberdeen is the most Scottish of the cities of Scotland. It is a fine holiday resort, with a pleasant climate. There are numerous good hotels including the Caledonian and the Douglas. Aberdeen abounds with tradition and beautiful buildings.
Leaving Aberdeen for the South, one should travel along the road through what is known as Royal Deeside, through Ballater and Balmoral where the Scottish home of the King and Queen at Balmoral Castle can be seen. Nearby is Royal Braemar, where the famous gathering of the Clans and Highland Games are held each September. This is the chief social event of the Royal Highland Season. Following the road over the watershed at Devil’s Elbow down Glen Shee, you reach Perth (32 miles northwest of Edinburgh) on the river Tay. Perth is a beautiful country town immortalized by Sir Walter Scott.
This almost completes the circle to Stirling, and is near the Gleneagles golf course, with its excellent hotel. A tour of the Highlands can be done by motor coach or by car. If you want to see more rugged country and the red deer and the lonely Scottish moors, go up over the Grampians way north to John O’Groats and on to the Shetland and Orkney Islands at the extreme north.
SPECTATOR SPORTS .. . Squash matches, Association football, Rugby, Fencing matches, Yachting Regattas, Bowling matches, Horse racing, the Highland games which bring the clans together, are very well worth seeing, indeed. At the Highland games you’ll see hurling contests, wrestling, Scottish dances. Golf tournaments, national and international.
SPORTS . . . Tennis; there are private and public courts. Golf, of course, is practically the Scottish National sport. Here are some of the famous courses in the world, including St. Andrew’s, Gleneagles almost as famous near Stirling and the Old Prestwick course. Some other very fine courses in Scotland and within forty miles of Edinburgh, include: North Berwick, Haddington, East Lothian, Mortonhall in Midlothian; Muirfield is one of the oldest and most illustrious courses. Guest cards can be arranged through members.
There is swimming in indoor pools. Bowling on the green, skiing in winter. Cycling and hiking are popular sports in the Lowlands and the Highlands. The shooting in Scotland is world famous. Most of it is done on private preserves. However, it is possible for the visitor to hire a moor for his very own, or more modestly to make arrangements for shooting through C. W. Ingraham Esq., 90 Princes Street; or Walker, Fracer & Steel, 58 So. Castle Street, Edinburgh. Pheasant, October-February; Wild Duck, August-February; Grouse, August-December; Par-' tridge, September-August.
Fishing is marvelous all over Scotland. The salmon fishing is world famous, but most of the salmon rivers are privately owned. It is possible to rent a boat for a month or a season. Salmon fishing is excellent in the Highlands and on the East coast. For brown trout fishing there are innumerable hotels which own fishing for their guests. There are boats and guides available and the hotels cater mainly to the fishermen. In Southern Scotland there are many streams in which you may fish by purchasing a ticket. The Scottish Tourist Information Centre Board, 21a George Street, Edinburgh, will give information regarding shooting and fishing in Scotland.
THEATRES . . . There are two theatres for excellent touring companies and occasional premieres, but it is at the time of the Music and Drama Festival that the most interesting plays are given. It is here that Bernard Shaw’s “Apple Cart” received its first performance and more recently T. S. Eliot’s “Cocktail Party” which later made a success in New York.
TIME ... Scotland is five hours ahead of New York.
TIPPING .. . Tip about 10 to 15 per cent. Occasionally a service charge may be added to your bill.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are buses and trams which run on overhead cables like trolleys, both of which take you everywhere. Taxis are available. Chauffeur and drive-yourself cars are very reasonable and plentiful. Gasoline is unrationed. There are good train and air services to all parts of Britain and Scotland.
WATER . . . Pure and good to drink all over Scotland.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tweeds of course, tartan plaids, woolens and cotton goods. Silver jewelry, kilts if you insist. But mostly Harris and Shetland tweeds. Cashmeres, too are wonderful. English pipes are good buys. Purchase tax coupons are obtainable at the banks.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Edinburgh is a city, so wear what you would in a comparable city at home. Dark dresses, suits, or in warm weather, prints and street cottons. Take a raincoat, overshoes and umbrella, a topcoat. For Northern Scotland, sweaters, skirts and suits. Men need raincoats, overshoes, medium to heavy suits, slacks and sports jackets. Golf clothes and shooting togs, for these sports.
Dunvegan Castle on the Isle of Skye is the oldest inhabited castle in Great Britain, the ancestral home of the chiefs of the clan MacLeod for 800 years. Present chief is a woman, Flora MacLeod.
Princes Street, Edinburgh, is the dividing line between old and new parts of the city. Scott monument is in the center, Castle Rock in the background.
[16]