HAWAII
WEATHER IN HONOLULU—Lat. N21°18'—Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
t Low	66°	66°	66°	68°	69°	72°	73°	73°	73°	72°	70°	68 ‘
Temp. < High	76°	76°	77°	78°	80°	82°	83°	84°	83°	82°	80°	78'
/ Average	71°	71°	72°	73°	75°	77°	78°	79°	78°	77°	75°	73'
Days of Rainfall	14	10	13	12	11	11	13	13	13	13	14	15
LOCATION . . . The Hawaiian Islands lie approximately 2,100 miles southwest of San Francisco, a distance about equal to that between San Francisco and New York. Honolulu is about the same distance north of the equator as Havana, Cuba.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Wonderful beaches, tropical flowers, hula dancers and flower leis are part of the very fibre of the Hawaiian Islands. Here you have the additional delight of being on home territory yet finding it as different as anything you have ever imagined. You can swim at the perfect beaches, luxuriate at the wonderful hotels, go deep-sea fishing or learn to ride a surfboard in this land of the wonderful climate. It’s a romantic spot, a perfect spot for a vacation.
POPULATION . . . 493,437 was the preliminary census count for 1950, of which 245,612 live in Honolulu, a city almost as large as Miami.
SIZE . . . The area of the island group is 6,441 square miles of which the largest island, Hawaii, is over 4,000 square miles, approximately the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island together. Oahu is only 40 miles long and 26 wide.
CAPITAL . . . Honolulu.
GOVERNMENT ... As a territory, Hawaii has its own legislature of 15 Senators and 30 Representatives elected by the various counties, a Governor appointed by the President, and a non-voting delegate in Congress.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, flying time from the West Coast, about 10 hours. Flights leave from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland or Seattle. By ship from San Francisco: 5 days.
HONOLULU
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Royal Hawaiian on Waikiki Beach. Best known hotel in the islands. Has everything from dining terraces, dancing, entertainment, tennis courts. Rates about $26 to $36 double, American Plan. The Moana also on Waikiki Beach is under the same management, but is much cheaper. Rates about $8 to $12 double. The Halekulani is quiet and homey, also on the beach. Rates, $14 to $32 double, American plan. The Hotel Pua Lei Lani has rooms, apartments and cottages, range from $4 per day to about $85 a week. There are lots of other hotels at the beach. In downtown Honolulu the Alexander Young is the best of the hotels. Rates $6 to $15 double. It is also possible to rent cottages and apartments if you plan a longer stay in the islands.
ARTS • • • Honolulu Academy of Arts: Contains interesting collection of Oriental and western art, and special exhibitions of Pacificana and modern art. Bishop Museum houses one of the finest collections of Pacificana, crafts of the entire Pacific; birds, animals, famous feather work of the Hawaiians and historic relics. This is a must in Honolulu. Queen Emma Museum is the beautiful home of Queen Emma and contains many collections of personal and household relics of the era in which she lived. Archives, next to Iolani Palace; the archives contain important and valuable Hawaiian documents, relics and old photographs of early island history. Good source of reference on early culture, history and politics.
BALLET . . . No ballet of course, but there is always the Hula. And it can be beautiful.
BANKS . . . Bishop Trust Company; American Security Bank; Bank of Hawaii; Bishop National Bank; Liberty Bank of Honolulu.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . New Year’s Day; Chinese
New Year; Lei Day (May Day); Kamehameha Day, June 11; Prince Kuhio Day, March 26 (Hawaii’s first delegate to Congress.) Flower Festival in September. Aloha Week in October or November is similar to Mardi Gras, there is a Queen and everything. Christmas Eve and Christmas Day are celebrated with pageants at Iolani Palace.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, TOBACCO ... Same as States.
CLIMATE . . . There are frequent but short showers. Like Spring or early Fall on the mainland.
CLUBS . . . Rotary, Lions, YMCA downtown; Kiwanis, Junior Chamber of Commerce, American Legion, Soroptomist. For golf and tennis clubs, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . The Hawaiian lei is a very special thing. It can be made of any one of a number of native flowers, but each island has its own lei and every flower lei has a different meaning. Hawaiians are American citizens and refer to the United States as the mainland.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . RCA —Mackey—Commercial Pacific Global Wireless — Cable, telephone, radio and airmail.
CURRENCY . . . Same as at home.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS . . . Proof of citizenship.
DRUG STORES . . . Many of them the same as at home.
FLORA . . . The Hawaiian Islands are a living flower show. Hibiscus blooms the year round, Bougainvillea is everywhere, the famous night blooming Cereus blooms here. The fabulous Bird of Paradise is guarded preciously when it blooms. Orchids are everywhere and are even sold in the Kress stores. Hawaii’s flowering trees are wonderful to see. The African tulip tree, the jacaranda, the shower trees, the Pride of India and many others are all indigenous to the islands and add to their charm.
FOOD . . . Poi is a Hawaiian staple. It is a paste made of the root of the taro plant. Some of the island specialties include
[143]