NEW HORIZONS
HAITI (Cont.)
tional dish. Mango pie is another national favorite. Coconut ice cream is very popular. Fruits, of course, are plentiful; bananas, figs, mangoes, etc. Haitian coffee is famous.
GAMBLING . . . The Casino National is open all year.
LANGUAGE. . . French is the official language. However, most of the people speak Creole, a patois of French, African, Spanish and English origins. The tourist can get along easily with English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Laundry is good and cheap. There are several new dry cleaning establishments.
LIQUOR . . . Haitian rum is well known the world over. It is light and good. Champagnes are plentiful and quite cheap. Brandies and whiskies cost less than at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . New hospitals have been built recently.
MOTION PICTURES. . . There are no first class movie theatres.
MUSIC. ■ • There is no national orchestra. The music of Haiti is in its drums; it fills the air each week-end.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS... A man on his own can find many night spots in and around Port-au-Prince, but in general, night life is confined to the hotels. On Saturday evening everyone drives to the Cabane Choucoune at Petionville, a few miles up in the hills. This is a circular building with a thatched roof where the elite of Haiti and the foreign colony dance the Meringue, a native dance which is quite beautiful. Of course, you can rhumba or fox trot. This is the only important night club in Haiti. The unusual open-air Theatre de Verdure, in water front section, has regular performances of folk-lore music and dancing.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE. . . Rue Dantés Destouches, Rue Pavée. (Tel. 3451).
RELIGION. . . Catholicism is the dominant religion, but there are several Protestant churches.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS... The food at the hotels is about the best, and it’s good. Aux Cosaques is a true Haitian restaurant; the Haitian sea-food and beef specialties are superb and moderate in price. Le Picardie in Petionville has an excellent French cuisine. Other restaurants are Savoy Vincent, Kalmar's and Captain Ace's.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Despite the fact that Port-au-Prince is like no other capital anywhere, there are some very fine shops. There are many souvenir shops, many places where articles of native mahogany may be bought. To mention only a few: Fisher’s, Mme. Paquin’s and Mme. Ewald’s. For mahogany items you should visit Caribcraft, Cardozo’s, Meinberg’s and Deslandes’. La Belle Creole is a shop in which you may buy perfumes, embroideries, Irish linens and English woolens for lower prices than you would pay at home. There are a surprising number of book stores. The inner circle of Haitian society is amazingly well read.
SIGHTSEEING. . . Port-au-Prince, capital of one of the only two Negro Republics in the world, is unlike any capital city you have ever seen. It is a mixture of elegance and crudeness, of sophistication and primitiveness. The streets are jammed with automobiles and burros. Peasant women walk with huge baskets of vegetables on their heads; there are pseudo-chateaux and houses on stilts. But everywhere there is color, gaiety and charm. While in Port-au-Prince, visit the Iron Market which is filled with an amazing variety of merchandise. The market extends for two blocks and is roofed over with iron, hence its name. Everything is for sale here, foods, cloths, leather goods, junk of all sorts and some fine things. Saturday is the biggest day, but the market is never closed. Palais National, the Presidential palace is a dazzling white building against a backdrop of mountains. Visit the museum which displays, among other things, the diamond crown of Emperor Soulouque who ruled Haiti more than a century ago. See, too, the anchor of the Santa Maria which allegedly was wrecked in Haiti. In the Museum of Ethnology there is a permanent exhibit of Indian and African relics. Be sure to see a typical woodwork shop where bowls and furniture are made of mahogany.
The recent International Exposition marking the two hundredth anniversary of the founding of the capital closed in May,
1950. The exposition grounds along the bay front now form a new business and recreation area for the city. A new two-lane parkway, beautifully landscaped, skirts the bay with its backdrop of mountains. Drive along the Boulevard President Roosevelt lined with almond trees which bloom from December to May. Everyone, of course, drives to Petionville a few miles away through the smart residential section for both Haitians and foreigners. At Petionville which is always cooler than the capital, La Belle Creole is a delightful and unique hotel, under the management of Mme. Lina Assad. It is a combination of French and Haitian in its hospitality and its food. Rates are from $7 up. There is, too, the Choucoune, which is new and adjacent to the night club of the same name. The hotel though small, has such improvements as radios and fluorescent-lit baths. Rates about $10 single, $20 double. There are other hotels there too, including two named Aux Orchidees and Ravioli; Ravioli has private bathrooms, rates $5 to $8 a day. Other hill resorts include Kenscoff and Furcy. Kenscoff is 4,500 feet above sea level so it is always cool. Here is the delightful Chatelet des Fleurs set amidst pines and poinsettias, with rates starting at $7 single, American plan. Le Refuge, which is quite famous, is on the shelf of a mountain surrounded by flowers and wide lawns. From here you see almost all of Haiti spread out before you. Rates start at $7 American plan. A tennis court and riding horses are available. On horseback you may go to some lovely mountain spots where pines and mimosa grow side by side.
la citadelle and sans souci.. .To visit the fabulous Cita-delle of the eartly nineteenth century and equally fabulous King Henri Christophe Sans Souci Palace you must go to Cap Haitien and Milot. You may drive to Cap Haitien in about eight hours or fly in about 45 minutes. At Cap Haitien there is a new hotel, the Flostellerie du Roy Christophe with rates starting at $8, single, American Plan. This hotel has tennis courts, swimming pool, fishing and horseback riding. There are two pensions, Andre and Martin which are less expensive but without private baths. There are arranged tours to the Citadelle which, of course, is the one thing you must see while in Haiti. You go to Milot from Cap Haitien, about a 10-minute drive, then make the ascent to the Citadelle on horseback or burro or by jeep trail under construction for most of the ascent. But before leaving Milot, you have a chance to see Sans Souci, the palace which is an exact copy of Versailles’ in France. Sans Souci has marble floors, walls of native hardwood covered with rare tapestries and brocades. Although it is now in ruins you can still see where Christophe fell beneath his horse while reviewing his troops and where he finally shot himself with a gold bullet he kept. It is about a two hours’ climb to the Citadelle, but it is well worth it. You must remember that every stone, every bit of ammunition was brought up by hand. The Citadelle was built to be an impregnable fortress to which Christophe and the army might retreat and live indefinitely. Its huge cellars were filled with grain and rice. The Citadelle itself stands on the peak of Bonnet a l’Eveque (Bishop’s Hat). It is a quadrilateral structure with a point which looks a great deal like the prow of a ship. The towers of the fort are five stories high, and its walls are ten feet thick. There are endless corridors with arched embrasures for naval cannon. Most of these are still in place. There is a central courtyard now filled with jungle growth beneath which Christophe lies buried. It is one of the most imposing and fantastic sights in the world, and you should not miss it.
If you drive from Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien you will see the sisal fields which are the backbone of Haiti’s principal industry; the valley of the River Artibonite; the town of Gonaives from which you enter the mountain country. You go over the North Pass at Mt. Puilboreau into the Valley of Plaisance with its thatched-roofed huts and banana trees, then to the village of Limbe and thence to Cap Haitien. You may hire a car and chauffeur for $100 for three days. The driver pays his own expenses. There are several reliable tour operators who can help you with arrangements.
voodoo ... It is possible to see voodoo dances in the hills near Port-au-Prince but you will not see the real religious ceremony unless you know people who know the country well and are willing to take you into the interior. However, you will see
[82]