NEW HORIZONS
INDIA (Cont.)
not readily available here. It is advisable that passengers limit cigarette import to l/i carton per person, 50 cigars, or V2 pound of tobacco. There is no specific limitation on cosmetics. There should, however, be no such individüal quantity as to invite suspicion of proposed sale in India.
DRUG STORES . . . Chemists, druggists or pharmacists can be found in the shopping and business centers and in most of the hotels. Tourists should not expect to find other than very occasionally an American product, especially cosmetics. Generally any visitor requiring any special medicines, vitamins, etc., should bring in enough to last him for his stay in India.
FAUNA .. . The Zoological Gardens are well worth visiting.
FLORA.. . The Botanical Gardens, at Sibpur on the west side of the river from Calcutta, are beautiful and justly famous as are the Eden Gardens. Calcutta’s Agricultural-Horticultural Gardens are something to see, too.
FOOD . . . Some of the special native foods are: Rosso Gotta (sweet cakes), Chingri Mach Curry (shrimp curry), Shingada (meat and vegetable fritters), Rice and Began Bhaja (eggplants fried in Bengali style), and Sandesh (sweet).
GAMBLING . . . Horse racing at the Calcutta Turf Club. There is horse racing in other centers, too, such as Delhi.
LANGUAGE .. . Hindu is the native language, but English is the second language. In dealings with managers and key personnel of hotels, you will encounter little difficulty when using English. However, you may have difficulty in getting directions from policemen and the man on the street. Make use of the service provided without charge by travel agents, airline and tourist offices.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Laundries are available. Domestic launderers (Dhobis) pick up and deliver your laundry. No diy cleaning available.
LIQUOR... In Calcutta you can get several brands of liquor; somewhat higher prices than at home. But for other places, you must get an introduction card when you get your visa, which will help you get a permit.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . .. Several good doctors and surgeons; City Hospital in Calcutta as well as private ones called “Nursing Homes” are crowded but available for emergencies.
MOTION PICTURES . .. There are several movie theatres in Calcutta, each air-conditioned and comfortable. Both American and British films in these houses and the films are representative of most of the large producing companies.
MUSIC... Bengal music can be heard on the All India Radio Station of Calcutta and Radio Ceylon. There is an occasional symphony program at one of the major cinema houses.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... Not many are found in India. However, there is Prince's located next to the Grand Hotel in Calcutta, and all the leading hotels have western ballrooms and cabarets.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... 42 Chowringhee Road (Tel. PK 2078 or PK 2079.) Telegraph “PANAIRCO”.
RELIGION .. . Churches of all denominations will be found.
RESTAURANTS ... In addition to the hotel dining rooms and bars, other good restaurants are Firpo's, Iceland, Neera (Indian) and a Chinese restaurant in the Great Eastern Hotel.
SHOPS AND STORES ... Hall & Anderson, Great Eastern Stores, Chowringhee Stores, Kamalalaya, Bengal Stores, and the New Market.
SIGHTSEEING ... Take a walk down Chowringhee Road. This road, which includes the Grand Hotel Arcade, offers a thousand sights: fortune tellers, tattooers, men with trained bears and trained monkeys, and hawkers and venders of everything from the daily paper to birds astoundingly curled and painted. Fort William should not be missed. It was once known as “the best and most regular piece of architecture that was ever seen in the East.” Government House, home of the Governor of West Bengal, is a lovely, interesting place as is St. John’s Church, opened in 1787. The church was built on the old burial ground in which were interred all the approximately 12,000 Europeans who had died in Calcutta since 1698. The remaining tombstones prove fascinating to study. On Judge’s Court Road one finds the
large and beautiful mansion wherein Warren Hastings, first Governor General of Fort William, once lived. Well worth time spent is a visit to the tranquil lakes in the Dhakuria section of Calcutta and the Belur Math Temple. The temple is one of the religious houses of the Ramakrishna sect. One must definitely pay a visit to the twenty ornate Jain Temples, situated on Pareshnath Hill Road, four miles from Chowringhee Road. The grounds of the Jain Temples contain huge glass tanks holding an enormous variety of unusual fish. The Jains are a sect particularly strict about the taking of life. Their land has become a retreat for birds, many of them tame. One of the most fascinating of all sights is the goat sacrifice ceremonies which frequently take place in Hindu Temples, such as the Kalighat Temple in Calcutta. See the Victoria Memorial which houses a collection of things relating to Indian history in the Victorian era; and the Asiatic Institute in Chowringhee. There is an annual fair held at the Bhui Kailash Temple, attended by thousands of pilgrims.
Delhi . . . Delhi is the capital city of India. Only six hours by car from Delhi one finds Agra and the fabled Taj Mahal, one of the wonders of the world. Another sight which should not be missed is the Pillar of Asoka, part of a temple built 1600 years ago in honor of an early Hindu King. The Pillar, though 1600 years old, shows no sign of rust. Metallurgists believe it was fashioned with flint tools from a fallen meteorite. Another spot of interest is the Red Fort, an enormous construction built a thousand years ago to withstand invaders, still standing in complete perfection. Other places you should visit are Rajghat (site where Mahatma Gandhi was cremated), the Tombs of Humayun and Shafdar Jang, the Government Houses, the Parliament House. Jumma Masjid, Kutub Minar and Birla Mandir.
Darjeeling . . . This very fashionable mountain resort is best reached by plane to Bagdogra, then 60 miles by auto. Arrangements can easily be made through any travel agency in Calcutta. Here you can see the sunrise on Mt. Everest. This is a popular resort in the summer for tourists with excellent hotels.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . .. Hockey and football are the national games and important tournaments are held in all the big cities. Horse racing, the Calcutta Turf Club and the Western India Turf Club. Polo, cricket.
SPORTS .. . Golf, tennis, soccer, hockey, tennis. Facilities are available at clubs for guests of members. For swimming there are some fine beaches in India and a few good pools in Calcutta, both outdoor and indoor. Hunting, particularly pigsticking, is popular.
THEATRES . . . The Star Theatre, the Rana-Mahal and the Minerva (Bengali plays).
TIME. . . The difference between Eastern Standard Time and Indian Standard Time is IOV2 hours.
TIPPING... Hotels and restaurants include a service charge. As a rule you should tip only 10 per cent—one rupee, or 21c, for each unit of 10 rupees expenditure, or $2.10. Do not tip taxi drivers.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Calcutta has good transportation by rickshaws and taxis and by two trams.
WATER... The water in any of the restaurants named above can be relied upon. The same is true of that served in hotel rooms. Under no circumstances should water be drunk direct from the tap unless it is conclusively evident that a filter, in good condition, precedes the tap opening.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Ivory articles which are remarkable for their beauty, delicacy, and intricate detail work. There are a number of trinket items which are most reasonable after a certain amount of bargaining. The opening price in a transaction in the New Market or other handicraft outlets may be dependent upon to be from 100 to 300 per cent over and above value for the acceptance of the seller. In the field of brocades and textiles, figure work, etc., these are amongst the best in the world.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Dress in Calcutta is casual, because of the very high temperature during all but the winter season. Seersucker, light cotton drill, duck, or light linen—in short, washable fabrics. Light tweed and flannel restricted to the winter months. For summer, be sure to bring a raincoat.
[163]