CUBA
WEATHER IN HAVANA—Lat. N23°08'—Alt. 30'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	65°	65°	67°	69°	72°	74°	74°	75°	74°	73°	69°	67 ‘
Temp. High	79°	79°	81°	84°	86°	88°	89°	89°	88°	85°	81°	80‘
/ Average	72°	72°	74°	76°	84°	81°	82°	82°	81°	79°	75°	74‘
Days of Rainfall	8	6	5	5	10	13	12	14	15	15	10	8
LOCATION . . . Cuba lies in the West Indies about 100 miles from the Florida Keys and 130 miles from the coast of Yucatan, Mexico.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Havana is the city of fun and frolic, of sunshine and sociability. Hotels are luxurious, beaches are fine, food and drink among the best in the world. The tourist is no novelty here and everything is done to make his vacation pleasant. If you want to try out your rumba, there is no better place than Havana.
POPULATION... Estimated 5,200,000, roughly the combined population of Chicago and Detroit.
SIZE . . . The largest island of the West Indies, Cuba is 760 miles long and varies from 25 to 125 miles wide. The area of 44,164 square miles is slightly larger than the area of Tennessee.
CAPITAL... Havana, population 676,376, the size of Pittsburgh.
GOVERNMENT... A republic, governed by a President, a Senate and a House of Representatives.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, hourly flights from Miami to Havana about 1 hour flying time; to Camaguey, 1 l/z hours; from Merida, Mexico to Havana, 2 hours flying time. Frequent flights within the country via Cia Cubana de Aviacion, S. A. (CUBANA). By ship, overnight from Miami to Havana.
HAVANA
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Among Havana’s more than 25 hotels you will be able to choose one that will suit your taste and purse. They range from the ultra swank to the small and quiet native hostelries. You can pay from two to fifteen dollars or up, per day in Havana. The most luxurious hotel in Cuba is the famous Nacional in the fashionable Vedado section. The decor is colorful, the food superb, they have a beautiful pool, and the famous Casino. Rates start at $15 for a single room per day and $20 for a double, European plan. Nearer the center of town on the Prado is the Sevilla-Biltmore. Rates from $7 for a single room, European and American plans. In the moderate price range is the old and gracious Inglaterra on the Parque Central with rates beginning at $5 single. Both European and American plans. The moderately priced Plaza on Zulueta Street caters definitely to American tastes and is very popular, European and American plans. Strictly Cuban in atmosphere is the Presidente far out in the Vedado. Reasonable rates on the European plan only. The moderately priced and interesting old Pasaje on the Upper Prado is famous for its native cooking, European plan.
ARTS . . . Cuba offers an interesting variety of native, European and modern art. Don’t miss the National Museum’s interesting collection of classic and modern Cuban paintings. There is also a rich collection of objects relating to the Cuban Wars for Independence. The museum is open every day except Mondays from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. Admission is free. The Tobacco Museum of La Corona Company shows a complete history of Cuba’s famous industry, cigars.
BALLET . . . There is a national ballet and a famous school which produced the star, Alicia Alonso.
BANKS . . . Trust Company of Cuba, Obispo 257; Chase National Bank of the City of New York, Aquiar 310; National City Bank of New York. O’Reilly and Compostela Streets.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . January 1, January 28, February 24, May 1, May 20, August 12, October 10, October 12, December 7. There is a fabulous carnival on each of the five week-ends preceding Holy Week.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, TOBACCO . . . Cuba is famous for its marvelous cigars and tobaccos. The finest cigars in the
world are made here and they make excellent gifts for those at home, but remember you can take only 100 out of the country with you. Besides the superb Cuban blends, most standard brands are available at somewhat lower cost than in the States.
CLIMATE . . . The constant trade winds make the Cuban climate one of the world’s most delightful. Though located in the tropical zone, the temperatures range from 75 degrees to 90 degrees in the summer months and average 70 degrees during the winter season. Cuba is ideal to visit the year around.
CLUBS . . . Havana Yacht Club, American Club of Cuba, Malecon 255; Lions Club, Manzana de Gomez; Rotary Club of Havana, Hotel Nacional. For golf and tennis clubs, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . There is a special division of the Havana police force to help tourists whenever they can. These men are required to speak English. The Cuban government has a passion for changing street names and the Cuban public is determined not to recognize these changes. If you are doing any sightseeing at all away from a guided tour, get a map with both traditional and most recent street names. Dinner hour is late.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . The long distance telephone system facilities are adequate, though not as fast as those in the United States. There are cable and telegram offices in most major centers. Airmail to the States is 8 cents.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the peso which has the same value as the American dollar.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS ... No passport is necessary to enter Cuba. You will be given a Tourist Card when you disembark. Cameras, portable radios, typewriters, 400 cigarettes, and fishing and hunting equipment (no rifles) may be brought in duty-free as part of your personal baggage.
DOCUMENTS . . . The Tourist’s Card that you receive when you arrive is sufficient identification in Cuba. You’ll need some proof of American citizenship.
DRUG STORES . . . Same as at home.
FAUNA . . . There are more than three hundred species of native birds in Cuba. Many of these may be seen at the Zoological Gardens in Havana. The variety and abundance of fish in Cuban waters is extraordinary. Outstanding are the red snappers,
[70]