NEW HORIZONS
NEW ZEALAND (Cont.)
Tongariro, is dominated by snow-topped Mt. Egmont which rises from the plains, and is an extinct volcanic peak. Here, too, is a forest preserve and some interesting drives. There are three good hotels, the North Egmont Dawson Falls, and Stratford. Five miles from Lake Taupo, there is the modern Wairakei Hotel which is centrally heated by steam which is drawn from the nearby thermal area. The hotel has its own mineral swimming pool, golf course, tennis courts and bowling green. Trips are run several times each day to the Wairakei Valley thermal area which is spectacularly thrilling and easily accessible. Other sightseeing trips include the Karapiti Blowhole, designated as the “Safety Valve of New Zealand”; Huka Falls; Aratiatia Rapids and Lake Taupo. Trout fishing is available quite close to the hotel.
Wellington . . . The capital (about 2 hours by air from Auckland) is built on steep hills about a beautiful harbor. The hills may be climbed by cable cars and electric trams rather like those in San Francisco. The best hotels are the Royal Oak, the St. George and the Waterloo. There are interesting drives through the mountains which form a backbone for the capital and a good highway which follows the coastline north. There are, of course, all sorts of Public Buildings, a National Art Museum, Katherine Mansfield Park and the Botanical Gardens to see in the city. A trip to Hutt Valley is short and worth while.
south island ... South Island is the site of some of the most marvelous scenery in the world. High mountains, wonderful fiords, wide plains and untouched bushland. The Southern Alps provide magnificent skiing and awe inspiring sights. The three highest mountains, Mt. Cook, Mt. Sefton and Mt. Tasman, tower over dozens of smaller peaks. Mt. Cook is 12,349 feet high. The Southern Alps are fast becoming world famous, as thousands of visitors arrive each year to ski or climb the peaks. The Hermitage at the foot of Mt. Sealy, is a delightful modern hostelry. About a dozen miles away is Ball Hut, a chalet in the Tasman Valley. Regular excursions are conducted to Tasman Glacier. There are guides and ski instructors available at the Hermitage and all ski equipment can be rented there. There are practice slopes and wonderful ski runs and jumps. It is seventh heaven for mountain climbers who can, if they like, cross the Alps to Franz Josef and Fox Glaciers. The Franz Josef Glacier Hotel is where you stay near here. You walk over a suspension bridge to see this sight. The Fox Glacier Hotel is also nearby. Guides conduct visitors here over foot bridges and streams to the very foot of the glacier. You may cross the glacier itself as far as the Pinnacles. A good place to start your tour of the glaciers or the Southern Alps is Christchurch (about 4 hours by air from Auckland) a perfectly delightful city with wide parks and broad gardens, wonderful beaches in their summer, New Brighton and North Beach areas. There are yachting, racing and some delightful drives. Hotels include the United Services, Warners, the Clarendon. Go by train to Arthurs Pass, the starting point for your tour of the Southern Alps. This is less than three hours by train from Christchurch. Arthurs Pass is the main break in the Southern Alpine chain, and there is now the longest railroad tunnel in the British Empire through the Pass. The tunnel is five and a half miles long. This train takes you to Westland, or land of the glaciers and the Alps. South of Arthurs Pass is Tasman Park dominated by the highest peak in the range, Mt. Cook. Tasman Park also boasts Tasman Glacier which is the largest in the dominion. Skiing enthusiasts claim that the glacier is one of the finest skiing grounds in the world. The Hermitage Hotel, mentioned above, is just above the entrance to Tasman Glacier. There are innumerable guided trips and tours through Tasman National Park.
THE MILFORD TRACK AND FIORD COUNTRY . . . The magnificent fiordland is reached by the Milford Track called “the finest walk in the world.” But it is a walk which takes several days. All roads to Milford converge at Lumsden. You go by car to Lake Te Anau, the first stage of the journey, where you stay at Te Anau Hotel. Then by launch to Glade House, also on the lake. Where you leave your surplus luggage until you return. From here you start the walk through some of the most superb scenery to be found anywhere. The Track carves its way through sheer mountain walls, passes mountain lakes, waterfalls and bush. Clinton Canyon, fourteen miles long and a half mile wide, is the first
stage of the walk. Then you first see Mackinnon’s Pass, named for the first man to discover this way through to the sea. You stay at Pompolona Huts, spend the night and start for Quintin to Milford Sound, your destination, where the comfortable Milford Hotel awaits you. Mitre Peak rises 5,560 feet out of the waters there and dominates the entire scene. The walk itself there and back is fifty-seven miles, and you go 126 miles by launch. The launch trip down the sound gives you an opportunity to see some of the magnificent fiords which give this part of South Island the name of Fiordland. It is a remarkable experience, for there is nothing quite like it anywhere else in the world. A motor road is now under construction so that in the near future you won’t have to be quite so hardy to see this wondrous part of the world. This new road will travel through the spectacular Eglinton and Hollyford valleys.
Queenstown ... located on the arm of Lake Wakatipu, is the center of the great lakes district of South Island. The White Star Hotel and Eichardfs Hotel are the largest. The trip across the lake from Kingston to Queenstown is a scenic delight, for the lake is almost surrounded by peaks rising to heights of seven thousand feet. Wakatipu is fifty miles long from Kingston at one end to Glenorchy at the other and the trip by steamer is delightful. You may stay at the Mount Earnslaw Hotel at Glenorchy and go further into the lake region if you like. Queenstown itself has a quiet charm and great appeal.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . The biggest one-day regatta in the world, on January 29th at Auckland. Horse racing at Ellerslie Racecourse, trotting races at Epsom, wrestling and boxing matches at Town Hall. Soccer at Blandford Park, rugby at Eden Park. Tournament tennis; golf matches at Titirangi. Swimming meets, regattas. Basketball games occasionally baseball. Cricket, of course.
SPORTS . .. Golf is popular here. Play at Middlemore or Titirangi. There is excellent skiing in the Southern Alps on South Island at Mt. Cook, Mt. Sefton, Malte Brun and Mt. Tasman all over 10,000 feet high. There are broad sandy beaches at North and South Islands. There are miles of beaches stretching north and south of Auckland on Waitemata Harbor. On the West coast, about thirty miles from Auckland, there is magnificent surf bathing on the Tasman Sea. There is yachting, sailing, boating of all sorts. This is the sportsman’s heaven so just name your sport and you can find it.
fishing on north island. ..Fishing is superb in New Zealand. In fact, world famous sportsmen claim it is the best in the world. Whether you like deep-sea fishing or prefer angling for trout or salmon, New Zealand is the spot you have dreamed about.
taupo district ... The North Island is famous for the trout fishing districts of Taupo, Tongariro and Rotorua. In some of these spots you can actually look down and see the trout in great numbers. The Lake Taupo region is accessible from all parts of the Island. And as many streams and rivers feed this twenty-five-mile-long lake, trout enter the lake from all sides. The famous Tongariro River is at the southern end. It is here that lucky anglers have on occasion caught rainbow trout weighing twenty pounds. The Tokaanu Hotel provides accommodations for those who wish to fish the delta and lower pools of the Tongariro. Huka Falls, about three miles from Taupo, is the site of Pye’s Huka Fishing Lodge on a stretch of the Waikato River reserved for fly fishing. The land on the river bank is reserved for guests of the lodge. The number is limited to 8 rods distance at one time. There is an excellent fishing camp on the Waikato River about forty miles from Taupo, where the fast flowing water provides excellent fishing. Lake Taupo itself is a splendid spot to fish particularly from February to April. But the Tongariro and other rivers are better from mid-February until the close of the season when the fish are running up the rivers. There is wonderful fishing in the Rotorua district, too. See sightseeing. In this district the best fishing is from November to-March. There are several excellent fishing camps as well as resort hotels in this area. In the Rotorua and Taupo districts, the limit of take is six fish per day and anything under fourteen inches must be thrown back.
the bay of islands . . . Some of the best deep-sea fishing in the world is found at Bay of Islands in the “Northland” of North
[169]