NEW HORIZONS
VENEZUELA (Cont.)
Imported liquors are higher here than at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... In general, very good, with plenty of Venezuelan doctors who speak English. Most hospitals in Caracas are private, with plenty of English speaking surgeons, doctors. In Maracaibo there are oil company hospitals, open to the public, and staffed by American doctors.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Among the best theatres are the Ayacucho, the Continental, the Junin, the Boyaca, the Lido and the Rialto, the latter on Plaza Bolivar. The Lido has a fine terrace and café. The best and up-to-date pictures from home, at about a dollar admission.
MUSIC . . . Just two blocks west of Plaza Henry Clay is the Municipal Theatre, a little old fashioned, but plushy Opera House. First class concerts, opera with visiting stars, good symphony concerts too.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ...La Mazot, Marios, Johnny's, Maxim's and manv others for various tastes.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . “Edificio PAA” Puente Urapal (Tel. 58101 or 58108).
RELIGION . . . Venezuela is a Catholic country. Churches of other denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . Thz Paris, Avenida Norte, a fine downtown restaurant, genuine French cuisine and Venezuelan Creole cookery at its best. Maxim's, good European food, native dishes, good wine list. Tipicana restaurant fine for lunch, afternoon tea, wonderful old patio of interesting house, good American food, native cooking. Downtown, one block from post office, the Deauville, open-air dining on nice terrace, French and native cuisine. The American Club, good American meals. Hotel Gui-mera Restaurant, Venezuelan native cookery at its very best. Try the pastel de paloma (pigeon pie). Hotel Avila, suburban, quiet, wonderful mountain view. Prices high. Excellent food and service. Hotels Waldorf and Nacional, both new, both good native and French cuisine. In the suburbs (Petare) is La Urbina, set in a grove of trees, fine terrace. Fine middle-European, French and native Venezuelan cuisine. Seafood, wine list excellent. Other good restaurants include Chicote, Bastille, La Vie En Rose, Internacional Fountain Ananco, Hotel Conde.
SHOPS, STORES . . . Near the PAA office there are shops of all kinds. Hours are 8-12 noon and 2-6 p.m.
SIGHTSEEING.. .The spectacular, concrete highway climbing up from La Guaira to Caracas is famous, winds through the mountains, affords the tourist some wonderful views of the sea, country and towns on his way to the capital. Over it travels practically everything it takes to maintain a busy city of 500,000. It is one of the sights of the country. Hairpin turns follow one after the other as one climbs 3,300 feet, each turn offering a fresh view until at the top of the pass you see Caracas below with its red roofs and tree lined boulevards. Downtown Caracas is an old-world city, with its central part containing whole blocks of one-storied houses, overhanging balconies and red-tiled roofs. Buses run through narrow canyons, driving a car is almost impossible. But the modern, elegant, very fast-growing, better residential sections of the city are most exciting. Broad boulevards have been recently built, there are new, smart apartment houses by the score, with beautiful gardens everywhere, their walls covered with roses and bougainvillea.
The Plaza Bolivar in the exact center of the old town, with its fine statue of Simon Bolivar, a native of Caracas and greatest citizen, has its Cathedral as well as the Casa Amarilla, once the President’s residence and now housing the Foreign Affairs Ministry. Most of the popular points of Caracas are within walking distance. Visit the Casa Natal, on First Street, east of Plaza Bolivar, the house of Bolivar’s birth. It’s a fine example of an aristocratic mansion of the time (1783), a spacious colonial house around a patio, containing amidst other treasures, a series of paintings by Tito Salas, fine Venezuelan painter, showing scenes from the life of Bolivar, his youth, the tragic death of his young wife, his battles and his death. Five blocks from Plaza Bolivar is the National Pantheon, set in a very lovely little park, and here under the building’s cupola is the tomb of Bolivar, South America’s greatest man. Over the tomb there hangs a marvelous Spanish candelabrum, and nearby there are two other tombs, one for Francisco Miranda, and the other for General
Sucre. Both tombs are empty, Miranda having died in prison in Spain and his burial place being unknown, and Sucre being buried in the Cathedral at Quito. Two blocks south of the Plaza Bolivar is a Museum (Museo Bolivariano) containing a mass of Bolivar war relics, paintings, and the great sword given the Liberator by Peru. Its hilt diamond studded, its scabbard is of native gold and its blade was fashioned from a meteorite by a descendant of the Incas. The Church of San Francisco—oldest in the city—was the scene in 1813 of one of Bolivar’s great days, for it was in this historic church that the Caracas council bestowed upon him the title of Liberator, as the greatest honor possible within the power of the country to bestow.
The Miraflores Palace, on Av. Oeste is the magnificent home and office of the republic’s President. There are gardens, a patio, fine paintings and massive furniture carved from Venezuelan woods in its reception rooms.
There are at least a round dozen of splendid Plazas within the city proper, besides a number of important public squares in the outlying suburbs. In the Paraiso section are the Plaza de la India, with the race track and the Club Paraiso nearby.
Among other Plazas back in the city proper is one of special interest to North American visitors, a green little park called Plaza Henry Clay, with his statue in the center. Just north is the church of Santa Teresa.
Another must for all tourists is the Capitol in which the Venezuelean congress meets, and which contains the famous Elliptical Salon. In this truly imposing room are many paintings, portraits of early patriots, one of which is said to be the best likeness of the Liberator. An enormous ceiling painting is of the Battle of Carabobo, deciding fight in 1821 of the War for Independence.
Venezuela side trips . . . From Caracas to Maracay, a 75-mile motor trip winding through beautiful mountain country is not one to be missed. You will stay at the Hotel Jardin, one of the fabulous structures built by Gomez with which the charming little town is filled. The Maracay region was his headquarters, has his town-house, and five or six miles outside the little city is Las Delicias, his country place, and his fine bull-ring, copied from the one in Seville.
The Hotel Jardin has a swimming pool, attractive patios, with a fine plaza. The rooms are large, the creole cooking excellent. Not far away is Lake Valencia, another of the former dictator’s favorite playgrounds. Some twenty or thirty miles to the west, along the lake is Valencia, fine old city, third largest in Venezuela and capital of the state of Carabobo. Nearby is the Carabobo battlefield, where the country’s long struggle for independence was won.
This whole vicinity has lemon and orange groves, sugar cane, coffee trees. You are at an altitude about half that of Caracas, and are about a hundred miles from the capital in a typical atmosphere of old Spain. There are a cathedral, narrow streets with flower-bedecked little plazas, elegant little houses with wrought iron window grills. The pace is leisurely.
Thirty-four miles away, to the northwest is the old port of Puerto Cabello. Tourists may be interested in the Maracaibo lowland country with Lake Maracaibo. The city is the second in size in Venezuela and one of the world oil centers.
The savannas and jungles around the lake teem with game. The Llanos, along the Orinoco have waterfowl and every kind of exotic tropical bird life. The Guiana highlands are big-game country.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing at the Hipodromo. Bullfighting is conducted every Sunday, November to March, at the Nuevo Circo, downtown at the Plaza San Martin, on a formal, elaborate scale, often with the best Spanish bullfighters. Buy your ticket on the Sombra (shady) side, which costs a bit more but is worth it, as breezes are apt to be cut off in the bull-ring, sun will be strong.
American big league teams sometimes appear in Caracas in the spring. There is the “Estadio” (Stadium) San Agustin, the “Estadio” Escolar on Plaza India, and the Nacional on Av. Vega, all three used for sports events of different kinds. First class golf and tennis matches at the smart Country Club. Jai-alai courts on the Plaza Mohedano. Cockfighting goes on almost everywhere.
[136]