NEW HORIZONS
LEBANON (Cont.)
are superior type restaurants, attractive and intimate, serving excellent food and wine in a Continental manner.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . There are excellent shops in which you can find merchandise from both East and West. Some of the better known are: Daoud, Hamod Alexandre, Bachour & Barakat, Achkar et Cie. You may bargain in the bazaars, but feel your way in the better places.
SIGHTSEEING IN BEIRUT . . . Beirut is a harbor with docking space for huge ships. You should see the National Museum and the monument of Berenice in Museum Square. Visit the American University, the largest American educational unit outside of the United States; the Oriental Library of the French University; the Great Mosque built in the twelfth century; the Garden of Rustin Sacha; the Pigeon’s Grotto. Take a tour of the residential section and see the beautiful homes built of stone, with red tiled roofs.
trips to the north...From Beirut take the beautiful coastal road to Tripoli which is like going back through history. In Tripoli see the crusaders’ fortresses, the monastery of the dervishes, the ancient mosques and Turkish baths and towers built by the Mameluke Sultans in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. There are good hotels here: the Hakim and the New Royal. Going further north you reach the world famous Cedars of Lebanon, which certainly no one should miss seeing. Here, too is a famous winter resort with wonderful skiing from December until June. There is “spring snow” which gives an ideal surface. Here you ski beneath and near the famed Cedars and stay at excellent hotels. There are high mountains, some of them 8,000 feet so that expert skiers from everywhere come here for the sport. The Cedars of Lebanon are 6000 years old; they have built Egyptian tombs and Roman ships; they are the oldest forest in the world. From Tripoli you can take one of the most beautiful tours in Lebanon, through the “Sacred Valley” and the “Cedars of the Lord” which is the birthplace of the Maronite order of monks. The monasteries may be reached only by paths which are really steps cut into the steep rocks. Lakluk is another important winter resort in this area. The “Sacred Valley” is ringed with precipitous hills on whose slopes are crowded hundreds of tiny villages.
resorts in the south . . . Most of Lebanon’s famous summer resorts are situated along the Beirut-Damascus highway. Best
known are Aley and Bahamdoun. Here from July to October there is a gay social season. Tennis tournaments, battles of flowers, water sports, automobile and horse racing and other special activities take place. Aley is where the President of Lebanon has his summer residence. Its climate is mild and there are many things to do and see. There are night clubs, casinos and at least two very good hotels, the Grand and the Tanios. The Grand has a casino. Bahamdoun has a lot to offer, too. From here you get a beautiful view of the valley of Hammana. Good hotels include the Ambassador, the Bahamdoun Palace. If you have time you should go eastward from Tripoli to Baalbek and see the magnificent Roman ruins including the Temple of Jupiter. The villages above Beirut are clustered together in the hills and a trip from Bikfaya to Souk el Gharb is an unforgettable sight.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing, soccer, basketball (the latter is extremely popular), wrestling, boxing.
SPORTS . . . Tennis, swimming, skiing. Not much golf played in Lebanon. Fishing, shooting, aquaplaning, water polo, volley ball, ping pong.
THEATRES . . . No legitimate theatres.
TIM1E . . . Seven hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... In most hotels and restaurants there is a service charge of ten per cent added to your bill. If not, tip about ten per cent.
TOURIST TAXES . . . None.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis and private cars are the popular ways to get around. As Lebanon is such a small country, it doesn’t cost very much to go from one place to another. You can take a taxi for ten miles for about $2. There are buses, but you wouldn’t want to use them.
WATER ... In the larger cities it is very good and you can drink it safely, but don’t try it in the smaller villages.
WHAT TO BUY . . . The most popular things are the beautiful brocades (which can be bought for about $8 per yard and cost $25 per yard in the United States), embroideries, rugs, brass objects, inlaid ivory furniture, and gold filigree jewelry, but be sure it’s solid gold.
WHAT TO WEAR ... Take along your very best clothes and about the same weights as you would wear in New York for the different seasons.
Near Baalbek in the eastern part of Lebanon lie the ruins of an ancient Roman colony of Caesar’s Time. A bove is the temple of Jupiter.
The St. George in Beirut is one of the largest and most famous hotels of the whole Eastern Mediterranean coastline.
[61]