NEW HORIZONS
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA (Cont.)
up the coast to Port Elizabeth and Durban.
You may go to Durban from Capetown by motor coach or train. There are two crack trains, the Orange to Durban, the Blue to Johannesburg which are extra fare and air-conditioned, have lounge cars and cocktail bars. Or you may fly in well equipped and excellently maintained DC-4’s.
Durban is a magnificent coastal city with fine hotels. Swimming, fishing and a colorful population. The Indian and the Native Markets here are fascinating. There is a Zulu Reserve within 75 miles of the city to which motor coach trips are made. Durban itself has a Marine Parade and a residential section called the Berea which is on a crest of hills. It is the chief port of Natal Province and is the center of a string of beaches and resorts. Along the northern Natal coast are St. Lucia Lake, Richards Bay where there is wonderful surf and lake fishing. At St. Lucia you stand on the banks of the estuary and watch the sharks. Hotels here cater to fishermen and boats and gillies are for hire. Sandsharks may be caught along the Natal coast at Richards Bay and Tugela. All coast fishing is done from the shore, the surf is too strong for boats. But you may use boats in estuaries and lagoons. The ski-boat is a Durban innovation. This is a non-sinkable craft with two outboard motors. They are used for barracuda or garrick fishing. You fish for a shark from the Durban piers. There is also marlin, salmon and tuna angling. The Durban Country Club has a championship Golf Course and there is good horse racing here, too. Hotels along the Marine Parade in Durban include the Edward, the Marine, the Balmoral, Edward, Alexander, the Mayfair, Empress, Rob Roy, the Mayfair and the Cumberland. Durban is the gateway to Zululand, and is a colorful tropical city. Here you see Zulus in their native costume, strolling the streets or drawing rickshas. You see Zulu women in their sarong-like garments undisturbed by traffic or people. The Indian Market is fascinating.
the Drakensberg...The mountain resorts of Drakensberg, borders Natal and the Orange Free State. In the last decade or so this has become a very popular tourist spot and there are some very good hotels. There is splendid and very difficult mountain climbing here. Some of the peaks rise 10,000 feet or more. The climate is fine, warm days and cool nights. The fishing is sensational, the walking and riding excellent. You ride on Basuto ponies which know the terrain. No mountain climbing can be done without official guides, of course. The hotels are modern, have swimming pools, cinemas,“Braaivleis” (barbecues) and other entertainment. You may stay in a “rondavel” a self-contained round cottage built on native pattern in most of the hotel grounds. Rates are about $4.50 a day and up. Ladysmith of Boer War fame lies about thirty miles from the base of the Drakensberg Range, it is about 210 miles from Durban and about 315 from Johannesburg.
royal natal national park is about a day’s run from Durban. This is 20,000 acre reserve with some of the most magnificent scenery to be found anywhere. Here are the Tugela River Falls, a game and flower sanctuary, natural forest and mountains. There is a good hotel, the Royal National Park at the junction of the Tugela and Mahai Rivers. The summit of Mont Aux-Sources towers over the whole area. There is swimming, riding, fishing and lo’ts of beauty.
About 190 miles from Durban in the heart of Zululand is Hluhluwe (pronounced Shloo-shloo-wee) where it is possible to see the rare white rhino. You can see plenty of black rhino, buffalo, impala, zebras, and other wild beasts. The views are wonderful, the foliage and flowers magnificent. There is an excellent rest camp with typical Rondavel huts. Running water and bathrooms are available. You must bring your own food or purchase it en route. African servants will cook if you like. Wear dark clothes, bright colors frighten the animals. Winter is the best time here. The grass is short and visibility good. If accompanied by African Game Guards, visitors may leave their cars and wander at will. Two days is the minimum time needed to make this tour.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... Racing at Kenilworth and Ascot on Saturdays and Public Holidays. Cricket matches from October to March at Newlands grounds. Rugby is the national game and matches are played at Newlands. Soccer is played at
Hartleyvale grounds Observatory. Baseball is becoming popular and there are League games played in the Oval at Rosebank Show grounds. Yacht racing season is April-October in Table Bay. At Zeekoe Vlei there are weekly races in season. Polo season is October-May and matches are played on the Polo Club Grounds, Wetton Road. There are tennis matches, hockey games, bowls, and golf tournaments, swimming and diving events are held all summer.
SPORTS . . . Swimming is magnificent all along the Union coast. There are nine golf courses in the Cape Province all of which admit visiting members for a small charge. There are tennis courts at many of the hotels in the suburbs and there are many tennis clubs. There is big game hunting in the Union. All game is protected here but you may still hunt in certain seasons in the Transvaal, Natal and Orange Free State. You may hunt lions, hyenas and baboons in the Union, however. Licenses are required for all hunting. Deep-sea fishing is superb around the Cape Peninsula. Tunny fishing near Capetown is popular and there is a Tunny Fishing Club. Hermanus on the Indian Ocean about 20 miles from Capetown has been described as one of the four finest fishing resorts in the world. It is a paradise for “rock anglers.” Fish may be caught from the rocks, in the surf or from boats. You may angle for sole, silver fish, geelbek (Cape Salmon) mullet, mackerel and many other varieties. For deep-sea fishing there is Hermanus, False Bay, Saldhana Bay. You fish for carp and bass on the Cape Flats lakes and there are wonderful trout, bass and perch to be found in the lakes and streams in the Western Cape Province which is within daily range of Capetown. Licenses are required for fresh water fishing, too. You can ski during the winter months about eighty miles from Capetown. There is a Ski Club at Ceres which has the rights to Matroosberg. Mountain climbing can be fascinating sport around Capetown, but visitors are urged not to undertake any climbing unless accompanied by guides. Table Mountain which rises back of Capetown has unpredictable fogs. Information on mountain climbing is available at the Mountain Club of South Africa, Yorkshire House, 38 Strand Street, Capetown. The Capetown Publicity Bureau will answer all tourist inquiries.
THEATRES . . . There are several Repertory groups which give performances at the Labia, the Little Theatre, and the Hofmeyr. Overseas companies visit the Cape occasionally.
TIME . . . Seven hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . Tip for the same services as you would at home on about the same scale.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Deposit may be required for Aliens Permit.
TRANSPORTATION. . . There are taxis. Trackless trams run from the center of the city to the suburbs and through the residential and business sections from early in the morning until midnight.There are bus lines. Taxi fares are fixed by the municipality and rates go up after midnight. Within a radius of three miles there is no charge for return mileage. Beyond that distance, you compensate the driver for his return trip. There are several firms which rent cars. There are buses which make short or long sightseeing trips.
WATER . . . The water is good to drink.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Native curios: spears; statues; leather portraits; wooden animals; skins of all African animals, such as antelope, snakes, leopards, etc.; ivory articles: karosses (animal skin blankets). One of the best sources is Ivy’s in Pretoria.
WHAT TO WEAR.. .What you take to South Africa depends upon where you are going and at what time of year. For Capetown in their summer take cottons, light weight clothes. For trips to Johannesburg, Durban, Kruger National Park, you will need warmer clothes — tweeds, a topcoat. Men will need grey flannels and sports jackets. Linen or cotton suits, swimming trunks.
JOHANNESBURG
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Hotels and boarding places are numerous. Among the tops are: The Carlton, Luthfes Langham, Grand National and Dawsons. Rates $4.50 up European plan.
ARTS. . . The Art Gallery in Joubert Park contains a fine collection of European paintings. Cezanne, Renoir, van Gogh,
[180]