GUATEMALA
WEATHER IN GUATEMALA CITY—Lat. N14°37'—Alt. 4,850'				
JAN.	FEB.	MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.	NOV.	DEC.
Average Temp. 61.3	62.8	65.7 66.2 68.0 66.2 65.8 66.0 65.7 64.8	62.8	61.3
Inches of Rainfall 0.3	0.2	0.5 1.3 5.6 11.5 8.0 8.0 9.2 6.7	0.9	0.2
LOCATION . . . South and east of Mexico, Guatemala is the most northern country in Central America.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Guatemala is for the tourist who is seeking atmosphere rather than gay night life, local color rather than chic resorts. For this is one of the few remaining Latin American countries which hasn’t been overrun by North Americans. Therefore things are pretty much untouched and the way of life is completely different. Guatemala City has been rebuilt since 1917 when it was destroyed by earthquake; there isn’t too much to see there, but it is your headquarters for colorful trips throughout the rest of the country.
POPULATION . . . The inhabitants in the country number approximately 2,787,000, or about the same as the population of Chicago.
SIZE ... 42,456 square miles, similar to the area of Tennessee.
CAPITAL . . . Guatemala City with 321,818 inhabitants is about the size of San Diego.
GOVERNMENT... A republic.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, non-stop from New Orleans, 5 hours flying time; via Merida, Mexico also one-plane service, 6 hours (elapsed time). From Miami via Havana, one-plane service, 5x/i hours (elapsed time). Non-stop from Mexico City, 3Vi hours flying time or via Tapachula, Mexico, 4 hours. Flights from Houston connect at Brownsville, Texas or Mexico City for Guatemala City. Flights from Los Angeles via Pan American, non-stop to Guatemala, about 814 hours. From New York, Mexico City is about 12 hours elapsed time, which in turn is 3!4 hours from Guatemala.
GUATEMALA CITY
ACCOMMODATIONS _ _. First-class hotels ($6.00 to $12.00 American plan) include San Carlos Gran, Pan American, Palace and Plaza centrally located and Victoria in suburbs near the airport. More modest hotels are the Colonial and Gran Continental. Pensions ($3.00 to $6.00 American plan) include Royal Home, the Pension Gueroult, Casa Shaw, Casa Barrow, Fernandez, Asturias, Alzamora and Schellenbeck. Ranch type accommodations, just outside the city, are offered by La Pradera and Casa Linda ($7.50 to $15.00 American plan).
ARTS _ , . Indian crafts and Mayan relics abound in the city. The National Museum should be visited.
BANKS ... Bank of London and South America, Banco de Guatemala, Credito Hipotecario Nacional, Banco Agricola Mer-cantil. Traveler’s checks may be cashed anywhere.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS _ _ _ There is a long roster of fiesta days. Some of them are: March 19 at San Jose, Holy Week celebrated throughout the country in April, July 25 at Santiago de Atitlân, July 28-31 at Momostenango, August 14-lb at Guatemala City, November 1 and 2 throughout the Republic, December 8-12 at Escuintla, December 17-21 at Chichi-castenango.
CIGARETTES, PIPES, TOBACCO _ _ _ American cigarettes of any popular brands are available but cost 60 cents a package. Local cigarettes such as Victor, Club, Raleigh, Fleetwood, are good and cost only 20 cents. Only 3Vi ounces of tobacco in any form are allowed to be brought into the country.
CLIMATE ... Guatemala has a “showers” season and a dry season. The dry season is from November to May but it is almost always pleasant in this country. The coasts, both of them, are hot and damp. The temperature in Guatemala City is shown in the chart above. In the highlands the days are warm, the nights cool.
CLUBS .. . Guatemala Country Club, Mayan Golf Club, American Club, Tennis Club and Guatemala Club.
COMMUNICATIONS .. . The country is served by Tropical Radio & Telegraph Co. and All American Cables, for
telegraph and telephone calls with the exterior. Local telephone and telegraph service for interior communications, is also available. Air-mail everywhere.
CURRENCY The monetary unit is the quetzal which is equal to the dollar.
n CUSTOM REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED _ Tourist card which requires birth certificate or proof of citizenship, vaccination certificate signed within two years, health and police certificates. Tourists cards are advisable even for overnight stops. Permits needed for all arms and ammunition. One bottle of liquor allowed duty free.
DRUG STORES . American products are available but are more expensive. French perfumes may be purchased freely at more reasonable prices.
FAUNA . .Deer, wild turkeys, peccaries, jaguars, parrakeets, parrots among other tropical animals and birds.
FLORA , . Orchids, carnations, poinsettias, gladioli, roses, gardenias, etc., abound. Ordinary and tropical vegetation may be found in the country due to its variety of climates and altitudes. A white orchid called Monja Blanca is particular to the country and is Guatemala’s national flower.
FOOD Guatemalan food isn’t as hot or spicy as that of Mexico. You can season your own food, as chili is served as a side dish. You’ll find tamales, tortillas, enchiladas here. Continental food is served by the hotels.
GAMBLING , , . None, other than the government lottery.
LANGUAGE _. _ Spanish is the official language, but you will have no trouble being understood when speaking English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . Dry
cleaning establishments where you can get practically anything done—within 24 hours at double tariff, for rush orders.
LIQUOR # . . All kinds can be purchased at wine and liquor stores. Local liquors are few, one of the best is Rum Amaja.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ,. . Practically all doctors speak English and specialists exist in almost all phases of medicine.
MOTION PICTURES .. . American movies can be seen at
[106]