NEW HORIZONS
IRELAND (Cont.)
To the north is Westport where you’ll see Croagh Patrick, the Holy Mountain of St. Patrick which is climbed by thousands on the last Sunday of July. The entire west of Ireland is the fisherman’s delight. Lough Corrib in Connemara, Leenane, Ballina-hinch, Kylemore and Recess are known to fishermen the world over. In County Mayo are many lakes in which fish abound. At certain hotels fishing privileges are available to guests. Continuing past Sligo and Donegal into northern Ireland visit Derry with its long bridge over the river Foyle. Nearby is Castlerock with its championship golf course.
Note: Northern Ireland is a part of Great Britain and is completely separate from the Republic of Ireland described here. Such facts as Customs Regulations and Calendar of Holidays for Northern Ireland coincide closely with those of England and Wales, page 9. For a brief description of sightseeing in Northern Ireland, see page 12.
Best months of year to visit Ireland—April to September.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . More than sixty racecourses in the country. Phoenix Park, Curragh, national-stud headquarters, Punchestown, and Leopardstown are a few that are nearby Dublin. Greyhound racing six nights a week from March to October. Hockey, cricket, soccer, Gaelic football, hurling, bicycle racing, tennis matches, automobile and motor-car racing, polo, all to be seen in and around Dublin. The Horse Show held in August draws visitors from all over the world. The All-Ireland Hurling and Football finals at Croke Park draw huge local crowds every September. Hurdle racing, and steeplechases all winter. Big Irish Grand National in spring, usually Easter Monday, at nearby Fairyhouse course. Go out and see one of the famous Hunt Meets, such as the Meath or the South County Dublin Harriers, even if you don’t ride. There are boxing matches which have big local following, stadium matches, basketball, billiard matches. The annual yacht regatta, at Dun Laoghaire is a great event. Girls hurling (Camogie, twelve to a side) play in Phoenix Park. Watch or join the players at old-fashioned bowls, at one of the many park greens.
SPORTS . . . There are more than twenty golf courses in the neighborhood of Dublin, some with world-wide reputations, other courses all over Ireland, almost as popular here as in Scotland. Among the best, adjacent to Dublin: Royal Dublin (Dollymount and Portmarnock, both 18-hole championship courses), seaside, very scenic; Woodbrook, another 18-hole course (seaside), licensed clubhouse, professional instructors
available. Special Dublin trains stop right at the course. Some of the better known inland courses are Castle, Clontarf, the Hermitage and Milltown. Good ones everywhere. A license for salmon or sea trout for single line and rod costs $5.60, slightly more if used in other districts besides the one taken out. No license for brown trout. The River Liffey has good game fishing right near Dublin, open season from mid-February to mid-October. All over the land there is good sport, pike, brown and sea trout and off-coast sea fishing, still near Dublin, very good in August and September, mackerel fishing then best. Best sea trout fisheries are along the west coast, Connemara, Donegal, and Kerry. June to September best, just as salmon fishing is likely to be falling off. Fishing is free on the three lakes of Killarney, excellent for both salmon and trout. There are twenty-three fishery districts in Eire. Licenses obtained from the clerk in the respective district, also from local hotel proprietors and tackle agents. Consult Irish Tourist Association on fishing. Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin, is headquarters for Irish yachtsmen; the Wicklow Regatta in August is the big annual event for Irish boating enthusiasts.
THEATRES . . . Dublin is the home of the famous Abbey Players and the Dublin Gate Theatre.
TIME . . . Five hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . There is a service charge added to hotel bills of about ten to fifteen per tent. Tip about fifteen per cent in restaurants, a shilling for a bell boy, a doorman. For taxi men, a sixpence, or say about fifteen per cent of the fare.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Train service good. Taxis cheap. One should tip well. Bus service everywhere is clean and cheap.
WATER . . . Water is drinkable.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Hand-woven tweeds for both men and women, suits, topcoats, skirts, lace, linen, fine whiskey. For antiques, fine old Irish Waterford glass, old silver, a great deal of which is superior to the same period of English, Peterson pipes, walking sticks. You may do better to bring your tweeds-goods home with you, made up after you get back. Some good handmade shoes for men can be obtained in Dublin.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Medium weight clothes, sports clothes fine for daytime wear. Good walking shoes essential, but you really don’t need evening clothes. A warm topcoat if wintertouring, or buy one there. Golf and fishing togs needed if you’re a sportsman. You’ll want a raincoat but you can buy fine ones there.
Guests enjoy tea while others play croquet at St. Ann’s Hill, Hydro, situated amidst hundreds of acres of woodland near Shournagh River.
For years old Matt O’Shea delighted in holding the ladies as they kiss the Blarney Stone, which is situated in Blarney Castle, County Cork and dates from the 15th century.
Tourists enjoy a mug of “export stout” in the sampling room of the Guinness Brewery, Dublin — largest brewery in the world.
[8]