SWITZERLAND (Cont.)
going to Switzerland. Berne is medieval in character. The colorful markets and arcaded streets are gay with native life and brilliant flowers. The fountains in the city’s lovely parks are fine examples of early Renaissance art. Other sights include the excellent Gothic cathedral, the Bernese Town Hall and the famous Tower Clock that has chimed the hours since 1530. Berne is also famous for the gory and exciting spectacle of the bear pits. Hotels include the first-class Schweizerhof with rooms from $4.00 per day, the Bären at $1.60 a day and the Bristol from $2.00. Good restaurants can be found throughout the city. Try the Cafe du Theatre, the Bellevue-Terrace and the Ermitage. German cooking is the specialty of this district.
Interlaken . . . is easily reached by rail from Berne. Situated between Lake Thun and Lake Brienz, the majestic Jungfrau dominates the gorgeous Alpine scenery. Fishing, boating and swimming are popular during the summer. Ski areas are easily reached from Interlaken. The village of Grindelwald is typically Swiss. Charming inns offer excellent accommodations. The lifts and trails are the best. Good instruction is available. The Jungfrau railroad takes you up to Jungfraujoch, highest railway station in Europe. The view is indescribably lovely.
spiez ... is another junction point for excellent skiing and mountain climbing. The village itself has fine inns and restaurants at reasonable prices. The entire Interlaken district offers year-round tours, sports and relaxing, leisurely good times for the tourist.
zermatt . . . An Alpine center dominated by the 15,000-. foot Matterhorn, Zermatt in the famous Valais district is one of the loveliest alpine resorts in Switzerland. The Zermatt-Gorner-grat Railway has excellent tours across the scenic Alpine panorama. There is skiing from September through June. Excellent accommodations are available in Zermatt and the nearby ski villages. The flowered Alpine meadows beneath snow-capped peaks are gloriously beautiful. Morgins, Champery, Crans, and Verbier are all gay skiing centers. Lifts and instruction are good and reasonable. The climate is delightful the year-round. Besides skiing, hiking, skating and tobogganing are very popular.
st. moritz ... St. Moritz is Switzerland’s most fashionable and most expensive resort town. The scenery is beautiful and there are year-round sports. The night life centered around the hotels is the gayest in the country. Side trips can be made to picturesque Engadine villages and the lovely mountain Lake of Stazersee. The Palace is the most lavish hotel. Rates begin at $5.50. Also very good are the Margna and the Neues Posthotel. Rates for single rooms are $3.50 and $2.00 respectively. The best restaurants are the Chesa Veglia and Meierei. Davos and Arosa are other important ski centers north of St. Moritz in Eastern Switzerland.
lucerne . . . The charming town of Lucerne is located 25 miles south of Zurich on beautiful Vierwaldstättersee Lake. It is one of the principal resort towns. Famous Lido Beach is here. There are boat trips on the lake and wonderful tours by scenic railway to beautiful Rigi and the whole “Land of William Tell.” Hotels in the town include the Schweizerhof, single from $4.50, Carlton Tivoli from $2.50 per day and the De la Paix from $1.50 a night. The Old Swiss House, Zum Wilden Mann and the Schwanen are among the first-class restaurants. Lucerne is a year-round sports center.
Zurich . . . the main university town, is Switzerland’s education, commercial and cultural center. The architecture, the customs and the entire atmosphere of the town is a blend of the medieval and very modern. The Art Gallery has a brilliant collection of modern paintings, especially those of Edvard Munch. The Swiss National Museum is another must. The Grossmunster is the oldest church in Switzerland, said to be founded by Charlemagne. There are concerts, plays and cinema all year round. Summer sports are a feature of the area. Don’t miss dining in one of the ancient guild halls. The public gardens and parks are very lovely. There are indoor swimming pools open all year. The leading hotels are Baur au Lac and Dolder Grand Hotel. Others are excellent too. Don’t miss eating the delicious Leberspiessli, a wonderful calves’ liver dish. There are excellent restaurants and good facilities for interesting side trips.
Basel . . . Situated on the Rhine, is the biggest town in north-
western Switzerland. The university is the oldest in Switzerland. See the fifteenth century Gothic cathedral and the fine old Burgher houses. The best German cooking is found in this region. Also fine wines and liqueurs. Stay at first-class Three Kings on the Rhine. Good food and unique atmosphere. Rates from $4.00 per day. The Schweizerhof is also very good and moderately priced at $2.00 a day. Restaurants include the Stadt-Casino and the Alte Bayrische Bierhalle.
The things to see and do in this beautiful and peaceful country can be only briefly outlined here. The Swiss National Tourist’s Agency will assist you in every way to make your holiday successful.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer is the national sport in Switzerland. Championship games are played in all important towns. Skiing competitions all over Switzerland draw international attention. There are also tennis matches and wrestling bouts etc. Racing in season is very popular. See the Swiss National Tourist office for information on all types of events.
SPORTS . . . The Swiss are an athletic and outdoor people. Practically everybody who can walk can ski. The glorious Alpine slopes offer the world’s best skiing. Don’t bring your own skis with you. You can rent the best in the world at a nominal cost and they are insured against breakage. Excellent ski instruction is available at all ski centers. The mountain streams and lakes offer fine fishing for trout and perch especially. Guides, boats and equipment are available. Swiss beaches are very beautiful and the swimming is excellent. Good riding horses are for hire in Geneva and most towns and bridle paths are scenic and well kept. The rugged sport of mountain climbing flourishes. The best guides and the most challenging peaks in Europe are here. Tennis is popular and there are good courts in most resort centers. Hunting is good in season, especially for deer and hare. The license is quite reasonable. There are rifles and guides for hire. The Swiss Alpine Club has built shelters all through the mountains for weary skiers, hikers and other sportsmen. Golf courses can be found in many resort centers. Shooting is another national pastime. Many shooting ranges and trap shooting facilities can be found in Switzerland. The Swiss are excellent shots because the government requires that every man of military age must be able to handle a gun accurately. The main centers for various sports are mentioned under “sightseeing.”
THEATRES . . . Plays in German in Zurich, Basel, Berne, Lucerne, St. Gall. Plays in French in Geneva, Lausanne.
TIME . . . Six hours ahead of New York Standard Time.
TIPPING ... A fifteen percent service charge is added to your bill and in a Swiss hotel this covers everything. No extra tipping need be done except for very special extras. In restaurants tip 10 per cent. Tip cab drivers about 10-15 percent, slightly higher at night. Checkroom and wash room attendants get around 25 centimes. Ten to fifteen percent is considered enough in barber shops.
TOURIST TAXES . . . About 0.20-0.50 Swiss Francs per day according to the resort. Some localities have none.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis and good local bus services are available in Geneva and other cities. Switzerland’s railways are excellent and fares are reasonable. Long distance bus trips can also be arranged.
WATER . . . Pure and good to drink all over Switzerland.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Your best buys in Switzerland are fine watches and clocks. Fine cameras and binoculars and lighters are available and make nice gifts. Lightweight portable typewriters are good, too. Swiss embroideries are lovely and so are the delightful little music boxes.
WHAT TO WEAR... Simple black dresses all day in Geneva and on into most evenings. Formal occasions seldom require anything beyond a dinner dress. Tweeds and woolens and comfortable shoes for sightseeing. A topcoat is necessary all year round and so is a raincoat. Business suits for men and casual tweeds and flannels in the country. The skier will have his own favorite outfit, but remember that the Alpine slopes don’t have the terrifically cold winds that we do at home. Conventional riding habits are worn in the cities. Unless you are a seasoned climber, get advice on what to wear for this rugged activity.
[23]