NEW HORIZONS
PUERTO RICO (Cont.)
GAMBLING . . . There is a national lottery with drawings every Wednesday. There are gambling casinos at the Caribe Hilton and the Condado. There is horse racing with pari-mutuels at one of the three tracks.
LANGUAGE ... English is spoken and understood.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES... Good at the hotels.
LIQUOR... Puerto Rican rum, particularly Don Q is known everywhere. It is to be had very cheaply. Barrelito is a little known local product manufactured in limited quantity which is well worth discovering. Brandies and whiskies are available, of course.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are good American doctors and hospitals.
MOTION PICTURES... There are at least five good movie houses showing the newest films with Spanish sub-titles. The Ambassador, Paramount, and Metro are the tops.
MUSIC . . . There is wonderful native music to be heard, particularly at the religious festivals. And the compositions of Juan Morel Campos are extraordinary.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . You can find almost any sort of night life you want in and around San Juan, from the lavish terraces and restaurants of the new luxury hotels to the real low-down dives. In between, there are Jack's famous for food and music; the Continental Bar at Stop 19, Santurce features a pianist and is open from 3 p.m. Several new clubs have opened or are planned.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... Calle Ramon Power No. 307.
RELIGION . . . Although Puerto Rico is predominantly Roman Catholic, there are Episcopal, Methodist, Lutheran, Baptist and Presbyterian churches. A synagogue and a Christian Science Reading Room.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS . . . Most famous of all Puerto Rican restaurants is La Mallorquina which serves magnificent sea food and Asopaos (a rice and gravy dish). This spot has been called one of the finest restaurants in the world by gourmets. The Palace Roof Garden overlooks the harbor and serves good food; you’ll find Italian food at La Estrella de Italia, on Luna Street; barbecued pig is to be had at Jenkins where you may eat in the garden; El Esquife, a short drive out of town, specializes in chicken rubbed with garlic; the hotels Caribe Hilton, Condado, serve excellent international and native food. El Prado has good plain American food. El Guadalquivir at Isle Verde, a short distance out, is a seashore spot which features fried chicken. Cecilia’s place at Isle Verde serves arroz con jueyes and other native delicacies
SHOPS AND STORES . . . There are many shops featuring mahogany bowls, boxes and other accessories. Many stores make a specialty of Puerto Rican needlework which is exquisite. Embroidered blouses and dresses may be found at Mary Vela’s, Basar La Moda, Fortaleza Street Shop, among others. Gonzalez Padin makes a specialty of men’s linen suits. Fiber Textile Plant, a government project, has beautiful work done with native fibers. Manufacturing of handbags, place mats, lamp shades, wall hangings all in lovely colors. The finest in native handicrafts. The plant is in the Eleanor Roosevelt Development on the way to Rio Piedras, Stop 31.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Remember that Puerto Rico is as long and only twice as wide as Long Island. You can see the whole thing in two or three days. But there is a great variety to be found on this small island. One of the phrases you will hear most frequently is “out on the island,” this means anything that is not in San Juan and its environs. San Juan itself is a peninsula. The city is divided into three parts. Santurce, Condado and downtown San Juan. In San Juan take a look at El Morro, one of the old world fortifications which is an historic site; La Fortaleza, which is now the official residence of the Governor; the Cathedral of San Juan Bautista founded in 1521 and San Jose Church founded two years later. San Cristobal Castle, a huge fort, is interesting and visitors are welcome. The Parque Munoz Rivera is a delightful pleasure park overlooking the sea. San Juan was a walled city and some of the old walls are still intact.
trips near by ... You will want to go to Luquillo Beach, about 27 miles east of San Juan and El Yunque both of which
can be done in a day. El Yunque is a Tropical Rain Forest which is utterly beautiful. Luquillo, a wonderful beach, nestles at its foot. There is excellent swimming. A beautiful 45 minute drive is to Aguas Buenas in the mountains. Here you will find Hotel Jagueyes for lunch and dinner or for a stop-over on a longer trip.
There is an inland tour which takes three days and includes all the highlights of Puerto Rico. This may be taken in five-passenger cars. The trip includes a visit to Coama Springs where you will find simple accommodations at the Coama Springs Hotel, from $9 American plan; a trip to a pineapple plantation; a visit to a rum distillery; a tour of the needlework center of Mayaguez where the La Palma Hotel has comfortable accommodations from $5 single European plan; a trip through the historic town of San German where the Hotel Oasis and the Guest House offer simple accommodations fpom $3 single; a boat trip to Phosphorescent Bay which lives up to its name at night; a look at a Sugar Central; a tour of Ponce (the second largest city on the island). All of these things, of course, can also be done individually and on your own. Actually a visit to Ponce is worth while if only to see its famous fire station. The building painted in red and black stripes is open to your view and the arched doorways are outlined with colored lights. There is an opera bouffe quality about the whole thing that is almost unbelievable, and you expect the brave fire laddies to break into a song and dance. The Melia is a good hotel in Ponce. There is an air-conditioned bar, good food, and you can go on fishing trips if you like. Rates here are $5 single European plan. Try to visit a coffee finca, high up in the mountain near Barranquitas. Some of the plantations take paying guests, and you will find it an interesting and colorful experience. Rates run about $7 a day and activities are limited to sightseeing, riding and hiking. Nothing for night hawks but a wonderful way to learn about the country. Another mountain resort is Cidra, which is 1500 feet above sea level. This is a beautiful spot to rest. From Ponce take the outing to Dead Man’s Chest Island. There is fine swimming and good food on this arranged tour, the highlight of which is a day’s fishing on the cruiser belonging to one of the Don Q Rum Distillery officers. Puerto Rican roads are wonderful; they were built by United States engineers and are among the best in the Caribbean. Back in San Juan, be sure to visit the Marine Gardens about a mile offshore at Boca de Cangrejos. Glass bottom boats make regular trips. The season for the gardens is May to September.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Cockfighting is a national pastime, and on Sunday fights are held in San Juan and every little village. The Galleras, on Canta Gallo Street in Santurce, is easily reached as is Tres Palmas Gallera on the Bayamon Road. Horse racing on Wednesday and Sunday afternoons at one of the three local tracks; baseball is almost as much of a national sport as cockfighting, games are played at Sixto Escobar Park; soccer matches are played at Escambron Field, and tennis tournaments are held at Rio Pedras Tennis Courts. Boxing bouts are put on at Sixto Escobar Park.
SPORTS . . . There are two nine-hole golf courses in the capital area. Guest cards are available upon request. Out on the Island there are nine-hole courses at some of the Sugar Centrals where you may obtain permission to play. The big hotels have their own tennis courts, and guests privileges are accorded at some of the private clubs. Swimming, of course, is wonderful. There are pools and beaches at the hotels. Escambron Beach Club at Santurce has cabanas; Guadalquivir Beach is excellent and Luquillo Beach, about a half day’s trip, is magnificent. There is excellent sailing and boats may be hired. The Yacht Club at San Juan welcomes visitors. Skeet and trap shooting is available at the Club Metropolitan de Tiro. Horses may be hired for trips out on the island. Fishing as you might guess, is excellent. It is possible to hire the Veronica II, considered one of the finest fishing cruisers in the Caribbean, for about $65 a day for six people. Rates include captain, mate, bait, tackle and soft drinks. You can try for barracuda, sailfish, marlin, tuna, dolphin and other deep-sea varieties. Unless you charter this boat, you had better bring your own tackle. Inland fishing is excellent in the numerous rivers and lagoons. Bass is found in the fresh water lakes in the mountains.
THEATRES... Spanish operas and plays are staged at the old
[74]