NEW HORIZONS
ENGLAND AND WALES (Cont.)
into England for your personal use. See customs regulations below. If you are going on to other parts of Europe you may leave the rest of your tobacco, and cigarettes with the customs office to be picked up when you leave. English cigarettes, cigars and tobacco are excellent, though expensive. Cigarettes cost 50c for twenty, cigars range from 50c to S2.50 apiece and pipe tobacco costs $1.25 for two ounces.
CLIMATE • • • The temperatures in London seldom get very high or low. The coldest weather in winter averages around 35°, and the summer high is around 70° ordinarily. The rainiest months are from December through February, but it is liable to rain any time. The fogs off the Thames are very thick sometimes. In general, England has a temperate climate.
CLUBS • • • The International Rotary Club is located at Tavistock House, Tavistock Square. Many Englishmen belong to private clubs in London. You must be a guest of a member.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. . . Though Britishers and Americans both speak a language called English there are many differences that can confuse you. What would be considered a nasty crack in this country can be a compliment in England. Go lightly on American slang and do a little listening to the Englishman’s to avoid embarrassing situations. Tea is a ritual at 4 p.m. The savory fish or cheese served after desert is a shock. And remember, cricket is as serious a matter as our baseball.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . London has telephone, telegraph and cable service all over the world. Local communication facilities are good. Airmail from England to the United States is 15 cents.
CURRENCY... You may bring an unlimited amount of American currency into England provided it is bills and travelers’ checks. You are allowed to bring ten pounds sterling. All this should be declared on entry, so that you can take what you do not spend out of the country again. The pound is worth $2.80.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS • • • Duty free import of 400 cigarettes (plus 600 if in transit) or 1 lb. tobacco; 1 bottle spirits and 1 of wine; 1/2 pint perfume (plus 1 pint if in transit); 50 lbs. of food but only 10 lbs. of any one variety. Except for candies, chocolates and biscuits only small quantities of food allowed out. You may take excesses and pay duty, of course.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED. - . Your American passport is all you’ll need for identification purposes. If you plan to hire a car to drive yourself, bring your driver’s license. A visitor’s license may be obtained for a fee of $1.50, good for a year, upon application to the Automobile Association without a driving test.
DRUG STORES • • • English drug stores, called chemist shops, can supply you with everything you need in the way of medicine and toilet goods. They don’t usually have soda fountains, though. Selfridge’s department store has everything.
FAUNA • • • England is the home of many species of birds. Especially famous is the nightingale, the homely little bird with a glorious song. The forests contain deer and many varieties of small game and fowl.
FLORA ■ • • Mild climate and lots of rain make English gardens and countryside look like something out of a seed catalogue. The ardent English gardeners are well rewarded by beautiful colors and lush greenery.
FOOD • • • Nobody ever went to England on a gastronomic pleasure trip. Despite the rigors of shortages and rationing and the generally unspectacular reputation of British cooking, there are some world-famous restaurants in London that have superb food. Roast beef and Yorkshire pudding are typical British dishes. Tea is a universal meal in England. It can mean anything from bread and butter to a spread of cooked dishes, followed by cakes. Don’t miss having hot scones.
GAMBLING ■ • • Most of the gambling in England is betting on the horses or dogs. There is some form of racing going on every day and every night. In England bets are handled by legalized book-makers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING • • . Most hotels have good cleaning and laundry services available.
LIQUOR • . Beer and whisky are the Englishman’s favorite drinks. Gin is a popular drink also as gin and tonic, gin and
bitters, gin and It (short for Italian vermouth) or gin and lime. If you order whiskey you’ll get Scotch. You will be able to get Irish Whiskey. Rye can be obtained, but Bourbon is very rare. There is an unlimited number of malt beverages to be had. As compared with the American three—ale, beer and dark beer, the British assortment includes lager, bitter beer, mild ale, old ale and stout, to name a few. They are served at room temperature. The various beers are often served in ’alf and ’alf mixtures—half and half of whatever you wish.
MEDICAL FACILITIES. . . Under the National Health Program, anyone in England may get free care whether he is a British citizen or not. Ask your hotel about this service. There are also private physicians if you wish.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Known in England as “flicks” or the cinema, motion picture theatres open at one in the afternoon. There are a great many of them in London showing the best of American films and other foreign films as well as all kinds of British movies.
MUSIC . . . Classic opera sung in English at Covent Garden. The English are the first to try this long-talked-of experiment on a large scale and the reception has been most enthusiastic. Modern opera, especially that of Benjamin Britten, is an integral part of the Covent Garden repertoire. The performances of the London Philharmonic conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham highlight the symphony season. There are also many chamber music groups and visiting artists from the Continent. There are concerts at Royal Albert Hall, opera and ballet at Sadler’s Wells Theatre.
NIGHT CLUBS • . . The British phenomenon, the pub, can mean a wide variety of establishments from the ultra-swank West End bars, whose snack bars serve some of the best food in London, to the smoky little neighborhood pubs with their inevitable game of darts, that are the working class Englishman’s club.
The gay night-life of London centers around such places as the very fashionable and expensive Ciro's. This is the most exclusive and costly place in town. Dinner with wine is about $15 a person and drinks begin at a $1.00. Also very gala, and less expensive are the Four Hundred, the Orchid Room and the Embassy in Berkeley Square. There are floor shows and dancing at all these places. Other clubs include The Empress Club on Dover Street, The Twenty-One on Chesterfield Street. Memberships, where necessary, can be arranged by a telephone call to the manager and membership fees are nominal. Many of the restaurants listed below also have dance orchestras and entertainment. Quite moderate in price are the Astor, the Cabaret and Cocoanut Grove. London clubs change ownership and name very quickly, especially the medium priced ones, so check at your hotel before you set out for an evening on the town.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE. . . 193/4 Piccadilly, W. 1 (Tel. Regent 7292).
RELIGION • . • Protestant Episcopal is the recognized Church of England of which the High Church part is known as the Anglican Church. There are many other churches, including Catholic, Presbyterian and Lutheran, and Jewish synagogues.
RESTAURANTS • • • Some of the best eating in town can be done in the dining rooms of the Dorchester, Berkeley, Grosvenor House, the Savoy and other fine hotels. There is usually music for dancing and the service is distinguished. The Cafe de Paris, popular with both the Royal Princesses, is one of the best and gayest spots in London to eat and make merry. The Bagatelle, Manetta's, Coq d'Or, Churchill's, Quaglino's, Hatchett's, and Hungaria are among London’s good restaurants. Try Barker’s Late Night Restaurant after the theatre.
Excellent food is found in the Soho section of town, London’s Greenwich Village. Here, excellent French, Italian, Chinese, Greek, Hungarian and Jewish cookery can be found on one little street. Try Jardin des Gourmets, Josef, Cunningham's Oyster Bar.
SHOPS AND STORES... Harrod’s and Robinson & Cleaver’s are London’s top department stores. Marvelous tailors along Savile Row. Wonderful shops along Regent and Bond Streets. British designers include Digby Morton, Hartnell, Rahvis, and Charles Creed. Liberty’s for prints. Shops are closed Saturday afternoons.
[10]