NEW HORIZONS
AUSTRALIA (Cont.)
Blushing bindweed, bush pea and heath. The blue pin-cushion is found nowhere else but in Australia. Native fuchsias, and field daisies abound. More than 145 species of wild orchids are grown in this state.
FOOD . . . Food is international in Melbourne where there are many restaurants which serve almost any sort of food you want. Fish is excellent here. Australians eat as much as we do. Lamb is a favorite and so is beef.
GAMBLING . . . Horse racing is the favorite sport. There are meetings in and near Melbourne.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Gouge Dry Cleaners nave a large chain of shops. Hotels will attend to your laundry.
LIQUOR . . . Australian wines are good. Gray’s Pink Champagne No. 9 was a favorite with the G.I.’s. Australian beer is good and stronger than ours. Whiskies, brandies and other imported liquors are obtainable at slightly lower prices than at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES.. .Doctors are excellent. Ask your hotel if you need one.
MOTION PICTURES ... There are many cinema houses showing American films as soon as we see them at home. British and other foreign films are shown, too. Top theatres include: The Regent, The Capitol, Esquire, Lyceum and Savoy. The Athenaeum and Savoy show British films as does the Grosvenor. There are four shows, called sessions, a day.
MUSIC . . . Grand opera, ballet, and symphony concerts are staged at His Majesty's Theatre.
NIGHT CLUBS • • • Mario's, 198 Exhibition Street, Claridges in South Yarra has dancing every evening.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . 247 Collins St. (Tel. Central 4628).
RELIGION ... St. Paul’s Cathedral (Church of England), Swanston and Flinders Streets; Baptist Church, Collins Street; Christian Science, St. Kilda Road and Dorcas Street; Congregational, Latrobe Street; Jewish Synagogue, Toorak Road, South Yarra; Lutheran, 303 Clarendon Street; Wesley Church (Methodist), 148 Lonsdale Street; Scots Church (Presbyterian), Collins and Russell Streets; St. Patrick’s Cathedral (Roman Catholic), East Melbourne; Society of Friends, 374 Auburn Road, Auburn.
RESTAURANTS . . . The Latin, 206 Exhibition Street, serves Italian specialties. Molina's, 55 Lonsdale Street, is a little place with excellent food from steaks to spaghetti, reservations necessary. The Mornay Cafe, 436 Flinders Street, makes a specialty of sea food. Try their flounder in hot mayonnaise. Claridge's, the Ritz and the Hotel Metropole all feature international cuisine. The Moccador is an intimate spot, nice for luncheon. The Nine Dragons, 418 Toorak Road features Chinese cooking. The Wattle Park Chalet sits in the middle of 100 acres of Australian bush land in Surrey Hills, ten miles out of town, a colorful spot, worth seeing. The Wattle Cafe in town has excellent food and a club attached at which you may reserve theatre tickets, take a shower, dictate to a stenographer. They will even furnish a baby sitter. Mario's Sunday night dinners are famous throughout Australia. The waiters perform that evening.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . There is a shopping service called the Save Time Service which will do anything you want in Melbourne: make travel reservations, book theatre seats or do your shopping for you. Go to Brice Accessories in the Causeway for English sweaters. Try Norman Brothers, Pty, Ltd., for souvenirs, such as miniature boomerangs, kangaroos, etc. Ball and Welch, Flinders Street, is one of the largest department stores. Windex Sportswear, features suits and skirts in Australian woolens. Meyers department store is recognized as the most modern department store in Australia and catering principally to those who have an “air” for fashionable wares. Compares favorably with large American establishments.
SIGHTSEEING IN AND NEAR MELBOURNE . . . Melbourne is popularly described as being like Boston in temperament and atmosphere. Its citizens are conservative and rather aloof. But once they know you, they are hospitable in the extreme. The city’s streets are broad and airy. The center of the city is busy and crowded, but in the outlying sections there are beautiful gardens and parks. The city is situated on the Yarra
River and from the river banks you get a lovely view of the skyline. Collins Street is the pride of the town. A broad, broad tree-lined street with shops, cafes and coffee houses. At the top of Collins Street is the Treasury Building surrounded by the Treasury Gardens. An avenue of elms leads into Fitzroy Gardens where you will see Captain Cook’s cottage and the carved Fairy Tree. The Botanic Gardens to the southeast of the city feature the wonderful flowers for which this land is famous. Take a trip to the Zoo in the Royal Park where the birds and animals live in their natural surroundings. There is a miniature railroad and an elephant ride for the children. Visit the Wild Life Sanctuary at North Balwyn where the koala bears are kept in natural surroundings. Go boating on the Yarra River and take a drive along the St. Kilda road. This is a boulevard lined with triple rows of trees which runs to St. Kilda where you will find Luna Park, an amusement spot like Coney Island. There are restaurants, cinemas, skating rinks and roller coasters. At Village Belle adjacent to the park are night clubs and restaurants.
beach resorts . . . Visit some of the resorts on Port Phillip Bay, Frankston has a good hotel, The Gar and, and a beautiful 18-hole golf course. Phillip Island is the spot where penguins, seals and mutton birds are protected by the government and may be seen at any time. The towns of Sorrento and Portsea have excellent bathing beaches. Motor along the Geelong Road to the Great Ocean Road which is cut into sheer rock. It goes on for miles over bays, and rockbound beaches over cliff's and shore. It leads you to Torquay, Anglesea and Apollo Bay.
the lakes . . . The Gippsland Lakes stretch for about 50 miles paralleling the Ninety Mile Beach. There is good fishing, boating and bathing as well as lovely country walks and drives.
the dandenong ranges are only about 25 miles from Melbourne. Here are magnificent views, lovely fern-filled gullies, waterfalls, wonderful birds and superb vistas. From the summit of Mt. Dandenong you can see almost all of Victoria. The resort towns include Ferentree Gully, Sassafras, Sherbrook, Cockatoo and Monbulk.
the hills . . . Tours are arranged for a trip to the Hills. Healesville has a fine hotel, the Grand. Nearby is Sir Colin MacKenzie’s Bird Sanctuary and the spas of Daylesford and Nacedon. Take the road to Mt. Donna Buang which is magnificent all seasons of the year. It is the winter playground for the state of Victoria. There is good skiing and tobogganing.
For information about skiing at Mt. Kosciusko see Sydney.
For information about Great Barrier Reef see Sydney.
Tasmania . . . South from Melbourne is the heart-shaped island of Tasmania, smallest of the six Australian states. It is separated from the continent by the 140 miles of the Bass Strait. A verdant, misty spot it is rather like Ireland. Hobart is its capital, and this city nestles in the shadow of Mt. Wellington, the summit of which is about twelve miles from the center of the capital. The Wrest Point Hotel at Sandy Bay, Hobart is excellent. Rates about $5.60 a day single, including breakfast, dinner and private bath. There is also Hadley's Hotel, slightly cheaper. Hobart itself is a metropolis with theatres, shops, offices and factories. There are ferries and electric street cars to the main suburbs. Mt. Wellington is a favorite ski spot and many main-landers come down for skiing in the winter season. Among the attractions of Tasmania are the wild flowers which burst into bloom in the spring. Even Hobart is permeated with them. Mountain climbing, fishing, and sailing are among the sports this tiny island has to offer. One of the entertaining features of Hobart is the old hulks in the River Derwent at the foot of Elizabeth Street. Swimming around in them are hundreds of fish. These are restaurant show-cases and you pick your fish, point him out to an attendant, go to your favorite restaurant in about half an hour and eat your choice.
Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, is in the center of sheep and cattle grazing country. It is a well planned city with broad straight streets and avenues leading from each other at right angles. The city has been planned so that the beaches and hill resorts are no more than a half hour’s trip from the capital. The top hotel is the Ambassadors on King William Street, which is one of the widest streets in the world. Here is where the stores, theatres and other modern buildings are to be found. Adelaide
[174]