NEW HORIZONS
SINGAPORE (Cont.)
MUSIC . . . There are semi-monthly concerts by the Radio Malaya Orchestra. There are frequent concerts by visiting artists given at Victoria Memorial Hall.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... In parks such as the Happy World, The Great World and The New World, you will find plenty of cabarets. However, Europeans as a whole do not frequent them except on rare occasions. The most popular place in town is the Princes's Restaurant, which is an Americanized supper club with good food, bar service and dancing. Other spots for dining and dancing include the Chicken Inn in the Seaview Hotel, the Palm Court in the Raffles Hotel, the Capitol Restaurant which is the same type as the Princes’s, the Adelphi Grill in the Adelphi Hotel and the Singapore Airport Hotel.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Mansfield & Co., Ocean Bldg. (Tel. 2405) are agents for Pan American in Singapore.
RELIGION . . . There are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . The best restaurants are in the clubs mentioned above; they all start serving before luncheon and continue on until midnight.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Raffles Place in the center of town, is the shopping district. But if you are seeking bargains and goods not available anywhere else in the world, all of Singapore is a good hunting ground.
SIGHTSEEING . . . There are many interesting sights and buildings to see in and around Singapore. A number of the places have been named for and built in memory of Sir Stamford Raffles who re-discovered the island in 1819. Raffles Institute which is next to Raffles Hotel is a College which was founded in 1919 and named for him. The busy banking, shipping and commerce districts center around Raffles Place and Collyer Quay. The Post Office and Government offices are here, too. You should go across the river to Empress Place and see the old Government Building and the Victoria Memorial Theatre and Hall, which is Singapore’s cultural center. The Singapore Court, the Municipal Building and old St. Andrews’s Cathedral, built in 1862 are on St. Andrew’s Road. Across from the “Padang” is the War Memorial, and if you go a little further on, you can get a magnificent view of the sea.
Two old institutions located on Stamford Road are the Convent and St. Joseph’s School, two historic places, and the new Raffles Girls’ School. Nearby is the Raffles Museum and Fort
Canning Hill. It was at Fort Canning Hill that Sir Stamford Raffles lived, and it is where the garrison has been since Singapore was founded. Here too, is the famed tomb of Iskander Shah, the last Malay ruler of Singapore in 1274, and the old European Cemetery.
Don’t miss a trip to the Sultan Mosque and Arab Street, which is the ancient Malay section of the city; the beautiful scenery at the McRitchie reservoir and the jungle on the Mandai Road. You’ll want to get the wonderful view of the sea from East Coast Road and to see the Chetty Temple in Tank Road and the Chinese Buddhist Temple in Telok Iyer Street. The Botanic Gardens are a must on your trip. In 1877 the first Para rubber plants were grown successfully in these gardens. These plants later formed the base of the rubber industry which has brought so much prosperity to Malaya. This is also the center of orchid growing.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer, hockey, badminton, football and basketball. In 1949 the Thomas Cup was won by the Malayan badminton team. It was the first international cup open to world competition to be brought back to Malaya.
SPORTS . .. Golf, tennis, fishing, swimming, yachting, sailing, badminton, squash.
THEATRES . . . There are numerous dramatic societies. Movies include Cathay, Capitol, Pavilion and Rex, and New Alhambra. All are air-conditioned.
TIME ... 15 hours and 20 minutes ahead of United States Pacific Coast time.
TIPPING . . . About the same as in the United States.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Lots of taxis (about 40 cents a mile). The rickshaw was banned from Singapore in 1947 and has been replaced by the “trishaw” which is a bicycle fitted with a two-seater side car. Native women use these to go marketing.
WATER . . . The water is good for drinking.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Chinese and Javanese woodwork of all kinds. Malayan and Javanese handworked silverware and jewelry. English silverware and crockery. Indian saries and Malayan sarongs. Skin goods of all kinds.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Take a large quantity of light clothing because of the heat. Flannel can be worn in the highlands and for nights in the lowlands. Singapore is very smart, better take dinner clothes.
Water taxis take you to points of interest along the river in Singapore. Across the bridge here is the Empress Palace.
The Post Office Building as seen through the entrance of the Collyer Quai Ferry Building entrance. The Barges furnish transportation from the large ships in the harbor.
[154]