NEW HORIZONS
ENGLAND AND WALES (Cont.)
SIGHTSEEING . . . What you see in London is largely up to you. You can do the museums and art galleries, you can wander around the various neighborhoods which make up the largest city in the world, you can go down to the “City”, you can poke around Soho and Chelsea. But here are a few musts on anyone’s list. Westminster Abbey, of course. This early Gothic building is England itself. Here is where the Rulers of Great Britain have been crowned for centuries. Here is where nobility is wed and buried. The great of England are buried in the Abbey and the history of the English people can be read in these graves. The Abbey tells the story of a great nation. You can’t miss Big Ben or Eros on his Piccadilly stand. The British Museum is a must even if you aren’t a museum goer. The Houses of Parliament are near the Abbey. Built in 1834 they are pseudo-Gothic with Victorian overtones. History is made here and you may be in on its making by obtaining passes to the debates in the House of Commons (by application to the Admissions office). There are three guided tours daily. Go to the Tower of London, scene of some of the darkest chapters in English history. It is now a museum and holds the Crown Jewels and other articles. Within its walls is the beautiful little chapel of St. John, one of the perfect examples of Norman architecture. Take a day to see this vast building which has stood since the time of the Conqueror. St. Paul’s Cathedral, which escaped the bombings, was built by Christopher Wren. The graceful Renaissance dome has been a landmark for more than two centuries. Take a bus to “The City,” the financial heart of England. Here you will find “The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street” (Bank of England), Lloyd’s, the Temple, Lincoln’s Inn and Gray’s Inn. You may visit these old buildings which are familiar to every reader of British novels, on Tuesdays and Fridays. This is where you’ll find “The Cheshire Cheese” on Fleet Street, the homes of Dickens, Carlyle, Keats. Go to Hyde Park on Sundays and hear the soap-box orators. Watch the riders along Rotten Row, go to the world famous London Zoo in Regent’s Park. Take a look at Mme. Tussaud’s Waxworks adjoining Regent’s Park. Make a point of seeing the changing of the guard at Buckingham or St. James’ Palaces. Take a look at one of the most charming churches to be seen anywhere, St. Martin-in-the-Fields on Trafalgar Square; go to St. James’ Park off Piccadilly and watch the wild ducks. You can do all this by sightseeing bus or just by meandering by yourself. A wonderful way to see London is to take the No. 11 bus which wanders over a huge territory. Travel by Underground (subway). It is an interesting experience.
Thirty minutes by subway from the center of London is beautiful Hampton Court on the Thames. It is England’s first palace, built by Cardinal Wolsey as a private residence. The palace contains a wonderful art gallery and an interesting collection of historic English furniture. Its hundreds of square feet of windows look out on the most glorious gardens in England. There are geometric box-wood mazes for you to wander through, quaint walled Elizabethan flower beds and graceful groupings of beautiful trees and shrubs. Hampton Court is another all-day sight, and in fair weather you may take a river-boat down the Thames between Westminster and Hampton Court through Richmond.
Windsor Castle definitely deserves a day of your time in and around London. It is an hour from Paddington or Waterloo Station by train and a little longer by bus. William the Conqueror started it, and Henry III and Edward III both made additions to the huge building. Windsor is a royal residence, and each monarch has left the mark of his era on the interiors. There are some fine foreign paintings by Rubens, Titian and Rembrandt and a wealth of British portraits. State apartments will be enjoyed and also the Queen’s Doll House. (There is a sixpence admission charge to the latter). Proceeds go to charity. Climb the two-hundred and twenty steps of the Round Tower and you will be rewarded by a marvelous view of the surrounding countryside that has changed very little since Chaucer stood there on the same ramparts. The best way to see the lovely Great Park that surrounds this fairyland castle is in an open carriage. The things to do and see outside of London are numerous and fascinating. In the following short description of some of the major highlights, England has been roughly divided into seven sections.
The British Travel Association at 64 St. James Street in London will help you plan your trips, answer enquiries, etc. The English countryside is dotted with enchanting little inns and the food is comparable with that obtainable in the large cities.
the south of England .. . English history began here in the south. Probably the most important place to visit in England, outside of London, is the ancient town of Canterbury, 53 miles to the east. The magnificent Canterbury Cathedral is the seat of the Church of England. This imposing Gothic church was built over four centuries. The first church in England was consecrated on its site in 597 a.d. The grounds around the cathedral are lovely. If you plan to go to Canterbury, make your reservations before you leave the United States. It is England’s most popular tourist spot and the inns are booked months in advance.
Knole Palace, outside of Sevenoaks in Surrey, 20 miles south of London, is one of the show places of England. The palace has endless corridors of gracious rooms and the Park and gardens are of the best. The whole countryside in Kent, Surrey and Sussex is dotted with quaint villages and the scenery is very beautiful. By contrast you may hire a car and drive along the wild and rugged Downs by the sea.
WINCHESTER, SALISBURY, AND THE NEW FOREST . . . The New Forest is so-called because it was man-made, not recently sprung up out of the ground. William I created this Royal Hunting Ground. Herds of cattle and very tame “wild horses” roam through it. Right in the center of this giant woodland is the Parkhill, one of England’s finest hotels. Staying here, you have a wonderful base of operations for seeing Winchester and Salisbury. Winchester was the capital of pre-Norman England. Things to see include the ruins of Winchester Castle and the cathedral, a lovely church containing an amazing mixture of architectural forms that mix together very happily. Salisbury is a charming town full of quaint, lovely old houses. The Salisbury cathedral has one of the most graceful spires in the world. Nearby is Old Sarum, a fascinating hodge-podge of Roman, Saxon and Norman ruins. A wonderful place for a picnic. The weird prehistoric ruins of Stonehenge stand on the Salisbury Plain a few miles away. Scholars date them about 1700 b.c.
the west country . . . The town of Bath, first built by the Romans as a resort spot, is the outstanding thing to visit in the west of England. Today, the architecture is Late Georgian, built in the eighteenth century when Bath was the most fashionable place to go in England. Stroll through the Pump and Assembly Rooms. The ruins of the Roman Baths are interesting, too. There are quite a few good little inns in Bath. The enchanting little town of Wells is near by and very much worth visiting. Go to Gloucester to see a magnificent Norman cathedral and a generally charming rural English city. The Cloisters here have an interesting collection of old manuscripts.
oxford and stratford-on-avon ... There is a tremendous amount of territory to cover at Oxford. The famous university is surrounded by ancient traditions and scholarly atmosphere. See Magdalen, St. John’s, New and Trinity Colleges, the Great Quadrangle and the Commons. The Sheldonian Theatre is another must. Climbing to the top of the cupola, you have a fine view of the university and the town itself. The gardens are particularly lovely. Plan to stay at least two days in Oxford. There are some quite good inns. Confirm reservations in advance.
Stratford-on-Avon has been wonderfully preserved as a shrine to England’s greatest poet. You may see the house where Shakespeare was born, and quaint little Ann Hathaway’s cottage. The town is typically Tudor England. The Shakespeare Memorial Theatre has performances of the Bard’s great works from April to September. Stay at the Welcombe Hotel, the George and Mary, or the Falcon Inn. The food is quite acceptable at all 3 places. There are other good restaurants in Stratford. Make reservations in advance, especially during the theatre season. Shakespeare’s grave is in the cemetery of the Church of the Holy Trinity.
Warwick Castle is near by. It is an interesting mixture of many types of architecture. There is a wonderful art gallery and the castle interiors are very lavish.
Tewkesbury Abbey is the great church of the region. It is the scene of the major battles of the War of the Roses and a fine example of Norman architecture.
[11]