NEW HORIZONS
VIRGIN ISLANDS (Cont.)
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Near the center of town, both on St. Thomas and St. Croix.
RELIGION . . . While the Virgin Islands are predominantly Roman Catholic and Lutheran, there are churches of other denominations including the Anglican Methodist, Baptist, and Presbyterian.
RESTAURANTS ... In addition to the hotel dining rooms, there are several good places to eat. Some do not always have the same hours, so it is well to call first. The Ransom House is one of the most popular; the Magic Lamp in Berettas Center, very attractive and have good charcoal broiled steaks and seafood. The Donk Shop with a lovely patio is open for lunch and so is the Bamboo Room, another attractive spot. There is also Steve's, well-known by all for good thick steaks and excellent native dishes.
STORES AND SHOPS . . . Because the Virgin Islands are a free port there are loads of stores where you can buy almost anything for less than at home. Try Continental, Inc., Bolero, Art Shop, Amerindies, Patio, Treasure Trove, Elverhoj, Maison Danoise and the French Shop on the Hill (Madame Souffront).
SIGHTSEEING IN ST. THOMAS ... It will not take more than possibly a day to explore the interesting sights on St. Thomas even outside of the capital, Charlotte Amalie. A must is a visit to the French village, often called Cha-Cha Town, where the people are descendants of the early French settlers. Here is the beautiful shrine of St. Anne, which overlooks the village. Drake’s Seat is another place to see. It is reported that this is where Sir Francis Drake, the famous navigator, sat while he was charting the channels and passages of the Islands. Take a trip up the Street of 99 Steps to Government Hill, where Government House the official residence of the Governor is located, also the magnificent administration building. There is an ancient Dutch cemetery which is interesting to see. The tombs were built of conch shells cemented together and in most cases brightly painted. Some of them even have the faces of the person sculptured on them. The Dungeons of Old Fort Christian, built in 1671, are another historic site. See St. Peter and St. Paul’s Church with its magnificent altar, and All Saints Anglican Church which has an organ over one hundred years old. The District Courthouse in Emancipation Park is where the proclamation was issued, freeing the slaves in 1848. There are many legends about Bluebeard’s Hill and Castle. There is a lovers’ seat on the hill, and it is told that Bluebeard’s ghost appears sometimes to aid and abet romance. You can take a regular daily trip in a glass-bottomed boat and get a wonderful view of marine life. Boats for a harbor cruise are available on charter basis and will take you through the harbor past the Royal Mail Docks, Creque’s Marine Railway, Ballast Island and East Gregory Channel.
st. croix . . . The island of St. Croix is the largest of the Virgin Islands but not as developed as a tourist place as St. Thomas. This is an agricultural island deriving its revenue principally from sugar cane, cattle ranches, and rum distillation. Christiansted on the northeast, and Frederiksted on the west are the two towns and have small but good hotels and guest houses. The Buccaneer, the largest hotel in the island, it situated at Estates Shoys, where Alexander Hamilton spent his boyhood. It has private beaches and there are riding horses available to guests without charge. Hotel-on-the-Cay is just 150 yards off the mainland at Christiansted. In addition to the main house there are cottages. Buffet lunches are served on the hotel’s private beach. La Grange Guest House, one mile north of Frederiksted, has its own private beach and tennis court, and was the manager’s residence of the now disused La Grange sugar factory. Clover
Crest, is another guest house 3 miles north of Frederiksted on the seashore with private beach. Club Comanche is situated in the town of Christiansted with an excellent swimming pool, dance floor and sailing dingy club attached. Sprat Hall is two miles north of Frederiksted and has many trails for hiking and paths for horseback riding, with its own private beach. Hamilton House, in the town of Christiansted, is above the store where Alexander Hamilton worked. Pentheny's Hotel is the oldest guest house in the island, with a beautiful display of antiques and good West Indian food. Cruzana Club is a guest house situated a mile out of Christiansted. There is plenty to do and see in St. Croix. There are the newly popularized donkey races of the St. Croix Jonkey Club, swimming, fishing, and sailing. Boats may be chartered at low rates. There are movies in both Christiansted and Frederiksted. Night spots are Club Comanche and Plantation Club, the latter outside Frederiksted. Some of the good places to eat are La Grange Guest House, the Cage, and the Rubaiyat. The shopping district is interesting, too. Don’t fail to go to the International Shop. This is where they have the famous Virgin Island Character Dolls and wonderful ceramic gifts. Also visit Elverhoj and Continental, branches of St. Thomas stores.
st. johns .. .There are daily boats to the Island of St. Johns, another of the U.S. Virgin Islands. There you have Cruz Bay, the seat of the local government, the Caneel Bay Plantation, a delightful cottage colony, consisting of 8 cottages and 4 bachelor units with several rooms in each. Here you will find excellent swimming, horseback riding and tennis, as well as good fishing. At Trunk Bay there is one guest house, a delightful spot overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, which is just beyond Caneel Bay.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . There is not too much spectator sports in either St. Thomas or St. Croix. There is baseball, football, and basket ball. Horse racing in St. Thomas and donkey racing in St. Croix.
SPORTS... Yachting, sailing, tennis, a nine-hole golf course, riding (you may hire horses from the St. Thomas Riding Academy), swimming (at Brewer’s Beach, Morning Star, Lindbergh Bay on the Caribbean or Magen’s Bay on the Atlantic), tennis, excellent deep-sea fishing and spear fishing.
THEATRES ... No.
TIME . .. One hour ahead of U. S. Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Same as at home.
TRANSPORTATION. . . There are cars to hire with or without a chauffeur, and conducted tours can be made by car; bicycles; trips over some of the old plantations can be made by horseback.
WATER . . . The water supply is inadequate and all water must be boiled.
WHAT TO BUY. . . This is truly a shopper’s paradise. Because it is a free port, you can buy things for much less than at home, such as: Danish silverware; Peruvian, Mexican and Guatemalan silver jewelry; Chinese jade; French crystal and perfumes; Florentine, Mexican and Guatemalan leather goods; English woolen goods; Haitian sisal footware; mahogany, tortoise shell, bead and sea jewelry; corals and cameos; liquors; bay rum; Italian linens, and alabasters; knick-knacks from Haiti, Puerto Rico and Tortola.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . For women, light summer dresses, sports clothes, sweaters and maybe one cocktail dress; and if you are staying in one of the better hotels, a dinner dress. For men, sports clothes, light weight suit (hats are seldom worn), a dinner coat. Most of the men wear tropical shorts with brightly colored shirts on the beaches.
Watching the fruit boats come in is one of the interesting things to do in St. Thomas. Here tourists are sampling some coconuts, just arrived.
This old Danish sugar mill tower near Christiansted on St. Croix is one of the many reminders of the time when the Virgin Islands belonged to Denmark.
[77]