north
DENMARK
WEATHER IN COPENHAGEN—Lat. N55°40 — Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
l Low	29°	29°	31°	37°	45°	53°	56°	56°	51°	44°	37°	34‘
Temp. < High	35°	35°	39°	47°	57°	65°	68°	66°	60°	51°	43°	38‘
1 Average	32°	32°	35°	42°	51°	59°	62°	61°	56°	48°	40°	36‘
Days of Rainfall	15	14	15	12	13	12	15	16	14	17	16	17
LOCATION . . . Denmark occupies the Jutland peninsula protruding north from Germany between Norway and Sweden, and includes a group of nearby islands of which Fyn and Zealand, where Copenhagen is located, are the largest.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Denmark is one of the gayest, tidiest countries in Europe. Everything is bright and shining. The people are gay, the food is wonderful and plentiful and the bars never close. Copenhagen is called the Paris of the North and it has everything that Paris has on a somewhat smaller scale. Good hotels, night clubs, restaurants, shops and something Paris doesn’t have—a palace at which the guard is changed at high noon. Yachting and fishing are superb. Take all this and mix it with the genial disposition of the Danes and you have a place worth visiting.
POPULATION... Estimated 4,190,000, about twice the population of Philadelphia.
SIZE . . . 16,575 square miles, about half the size of Maine. No part of the land is more than 40 miles from the open sea.
CAPITAL... Copenhagen, a city of a little more than a million inhabitants, about half the size of Philadelphia. GOVERNMENT... a constitutional monarchy, the crown holding power with the Rigsdag or Parliament. HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper via London about 17Vi hours (elapsed time) from New York. By ship about 10 days.
COPENHAGEN
ACCOMMODATIONS... There are a number of fine hotels in Copenhagen. The d\Angleterre has long been famous for its distinguished service and delightful sidewalk café, rates for a single room begin at about $5.00 per day. More modern in atmosphere is the Palace. Rates begin at about $5.00 here, too. Alexandra and Astoria are good too and the renowned Terminus Hotel has an excellent restaurant. Two brand new hotels have been opened since the end of the war—The Codan, situated at the harbor, and The Richmond which is near the Town Hall Square. Rates are about $3 single. For those traveling on a small budget comfortable accommodations are available at the various Mission Hotels. Rooms are about a dollar a day and don’t let the name scare you, they are not religious organizations.
ARTS ... You could spend all your sightseeing time seeing the wonderful museums of Copenhagen alone. Here are a few of the most outstanding: The National Museum with outstanding collections from the time of the Vikings and other periods in Danish history. The Arsenal has a famous display of arms, armour and uniforms. In Rosenborg Palace you will enjoy the regalia of the Danish kings. The Kunstindustrimuseet houses a fascinating collection of arts and crafts of Denmark and foreign countries from the Middle Ages to the present time. The world-famous Museum of Musical Instruments is in the same building. The Hirschsprung Collection of Danish art is an interesting and representative exhibit. The Thorvaldsen Museum contains the works, the tomb and the personal effects of Thorvaldsen, one of Denmark’s greatest masters. The State Museum of Art has a representative collection of universal arts including fine paintings from the Danish Renaissance.
BALLET . . . The Danish Royal Ballet Company is one of the finest in the world. Season at the Royal Theatre is September-June.
BANKS • • • There are many good banks in Denmark. Banking hours are: 10 to 3; Saturdays, 10 to 1; Fridays also 5 to 6 p.m.
American Express Office is located at Dagmarhus—V Boulevard 12.
CALENDAR OF EVENTS . . . March 11, King’s Birthday; Easter, five-day holiday from Maundy Thursday to Easter Monday. Most shops, however, open Easter Saturday; May 4, Eve of Liberation; June 23, Midsummer Night; July 4, Celebration in the Danish-American National Park in Rebild.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes are available only against payment in dollars at $5.50 per carton. You may bring in 400 duty free. Danish brands such as kings are very much like American cigarettes.
CLIMATE . . . Copenhagen and all of Denmark is warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer than the Northeastern section of the United States. The winter temperatures seldom go below 30 degrees and summer averages around 68 degrees. The Gulf Stream keeps the climate equable. Best time to visit Denmark is middle of April to November.
CLUBS . . . There are many clubs of all kinds in Denmark. Ask the Personal Information Department of the National Travel Association of Denmark for information about clubs which may interest you. Address: 5-7 Banegaardspladsen (opposite the Central Station).
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . “Thank you” (Tak) is the most often heard phrase in Denmark. You shake hands when you meet people and when you leave. Bring flowers when invited to dinner at a private home or send them ahead of you. The National Tourist Association has set up the Personal Information Center which gives information and the most wonderful part of this friendly organization is their introduction plan. They will arrange for you to meet anybody from brother butterfly collectors to diplomats. This is international friendship and hospitality with a vengeance. Time is referred to as half of the next hour rather than half past an hour; for example, 6:30 is called “half-seven”.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There are excellent telephone,
[46]