NEW HORIZONS
SWEDEN (Cont.)
times are about like those at home. Dinner is served from five on.
GAMBLING . . . Gambling casinos not allowed in Sweden. Horse racing every Sunday.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Cleaning and laundry facilities are good everywhere.
LIQUOR . . . Snaps is the national drink in Sweden. It is a very good and unique brandy. Traditionally it is drunk only with smorgasbord. The most popular brands are O. P., odakra, Skane and Taffel Aquavit. There is Pilsner beer, lager beer and stout. These are also drunk with meals. Drinking is done with meals in Sweden. Except for two ready mixed drinks made with whiskey or gin, liquor is not served without food. The cocktail bar as we know it can be found only in the larger hotels and restaurants in Stockholm. The tourist can get permission to purchase 2 liters of liquor on his passport in the special liquor shop.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... Stockholm and most of Sweden has excellent doctors and dentists and modern medical facilities. Ask at your hotel, should you need a doctor.
MOTION PICTURES . . . American pictures dominate the scene. French, British and Swedish films are also shown. See the daily paper for times, programs and theatres.
MUSIC . . . The Royal Opera in Sweden is famous for its high artistic standards. The season is from August to May. It is one of the oldest opera houses in the world. Concerts are given at the Royal Academy of Music and the Stockholm Concert Hall. The National Symphony and foreign groups give performances during the winter. Concert halls are closed in the summer, but there are open-air concerts given in the parks.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . There are no night clubs in Sweden. The Swedish attitude toward drinking is toward moderation. The larger hotels have dancing some nights of the week, but that’s about it. Sweden will offer much more to the tourist interested in good music, good theatre and fine out-door life than those who are concerned with the drinking conditions before they can have a good time.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE... Jakobstorg 1 (Tel.23-19-20).
RELIGION . . . Sweden is a Protestant country. The State Church is Lutheran. There are Catholic, Methodist, Episcopal, Christian Scientist churches and Jewish synagogues in Stockholm.
RESTAURANTS . . . There is a lot of superb eating to be done in Stockholm. Everyone will soon find their favorite spot to eat, but here are some of the best and most famous restaurants: The Bacchi Wapen, serving primarily French food, is first class; Djurgardsbrunns Wardshus and Berns are both excellent . . . the former is a “must”. Den Gyldene Freden is typically Swedish and excellent. Riche, Bellmansro, and the Opera-kallaren are all first class. The dining rooms of most hotels have very fine food, especially the swank Grand Hotel Restaurant. You can eat elegantly and superbly for $10 a day in Stockholm, you can eat well for half that figure and you can eat quite adequately for only $2.50 a day. Expensive dinners start at around $3.00, and a very satisfying meal can be had for as little as 75c. Milk-bars serve good, inexpensive lunch-counter food.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . K. A. Anderson for fine jewelry; Fritzes for books; try Svenskt Tenn’s for pottery, textiles and glass; Williams and Robels are fine, exclusive women’s shops; Nordiska Kompaniet is the largest department store; Morris is an excellent men’s shop. Main shopping district is Kungsgatan-Drottninggatan.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Stockholm is one of the loveliest cities in the world. The architecture is a perfect blend of centuries of good taste. Beautiful, clean modern buildings are in perfect harmony with thirteenth century Gothic. It’s a good idea to take a boat ride through the canals and around the islands of the city for your first bout of sightseeing. You’ll get a fine over-all impression of this charming city. The Town Hall is a must. It’s Stockholm’s trademark and one of the most beautiful buildings in Europe. The medieval section of town is called the “City between the Bridges.” Here you’ll find quaintly twisting little streets lined with artists’ studios and curious little shops and the old church of St. Gertrud chimes the hours. Riddarholm Church is the burial place of many of Sweden’s kings and queens. The wonderful art collection at the Waldemarsudde, home of Swed-
en’s late artist Prince Eugen, is fabulously beautiful and includes much of the Prince’s own work. Take a night-boat ride to Djurgarden. Beautiful parks and magnificent buildings are found in this region. A landau ride by moonlight is wonderfully romantic here. Take a day to see Drottningholm Palace, three-quarters of an hour from the center of town by a little white lake steamer. There is a fine inn here with atmosphere and superb food. The palace is breath-takingly lovely. It has been called the Swedish Versailles. There are many excellently planned tours of various parts of the city and private guides are available.
Uppsala is about forty miles north of Stockholm. The ruins in the Old City date from pagan times, and there are burial mounds of ancient chieftains. The University was founded in the fifteenth century. The Renaissance castle and cathedral are very lovely and interesting historically. Stay at the Gillet, from $2.50 a night, or at the Stadshotellet at the same price. Both hotels have excellent restaurants.
Heading northwest into the land of the midnight sun you come to the charming province of Dalecarlia. Rattvik on Lake Siljan is the central point for excursions in this region. Many of Sweden’s outstanding artists and poets have come from Dalecarlia. It is a great ski center. World champions belong to its clubs. Good accommodations and instruction available and the skiing is wonderful. Summer is equally lovely in this region. The mountain scenery is glorious, and the northern lights lend exotic beauty to the nightless land. Hiking and mountain climbing are popular. There are Youth Hostels throughout the region as well as quaint inns. Gay festivals full of native costumes and music are a feature of Dalecarlia.
In northern-most part of Sweden is the unspoiled arctic region of Lapland. Arctic flora, mountain peaks shimmering in the sun and dazzling mountain lakes make Lapland serenely and gloriously beautiful. This is truly the Land of the Midnight Sun. The northern lights are here in all their blazing glory. The Swedish Travel Association has done much to enable the tourist to see this province. Trails have been cut through the forests, bridges and paths have been made, and much money has gone into building railroads through the rugged terrain. Boating facilities are available on the mountain lakes, fishing is popular and hikers and climbers will find endless possibilities here. The culture of the primitive Lapps is much as it has been for centuries. The Swedish government has done much to protect these people against exploitation. Riksgransen is the best base of operations for seeing Lapland. Guides, accommodations and tourist information are available. The Laplandia is the best place to stay and to eat. Rates begin at $2.50.
Malmo, in the south of Sweden, is the third largest town in the country. It is a busy modern port town. The modern architecture in the city is of the best. The surrounding province of Skane differs from the northern mountain regions. There are rolling hills and fertile farm areas here. Nearby Lund is the site of the medieval castle of Trolleholm and the University of Lund. The region is dotted with quaint villages, lush forests and picturesque windmills. It is a region of great beauty and peace.
Sweden’s second city is Gothenburg. It is a vital port town and very cosmopolitan in atmosphere. There are theatres, a fine shopping district, modern housing developments and beautiful parks. Fishing, sailing and boating are all popular. So are golf and tennis. The regattas at nearby Marstrand are very popular, too. Coming to Gothenburg first, one can go to Stockholm through the famous Overland Waterway. The new Park Avenue Hotel is first class. The rates begin at $4.00 a day. The Palace, and the Eggers are also recommended. The average rates are $3.00. Center of sightseeing in the west of Sweden is the lovely city of Karlstad on Lake Vanern. From here you can plan excursions to various» charming villages and towns in Varm-land, an ancient Swedish province. The woods and lakes of the region offer marvelous hunting and fishing. Simple and clean accommodations can be found in the little villages. The local hotel is often an ex-feudal manor house of fine architectural beauty. These are only the highlights of one of Europe’s most beautiful countries. A holiday in Sweden is a relaxing and leisurely experience. The loveliness of the country and its friendly people will be a cherished memory.
[44]