NEW HORIZONS
JAMAICA (Cont.)
other rum like it. It is, of course, cheaper here. There are imported liquors available too, at prices same as at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Excellent doctors, dentists and hospitals. The Kingston Public Hospital is the largest and there are two large private hospitals, the Nuttall Memorial Hostel and St. Joseph’s Sanitarium in Kingston too. There are 24 general, government and other hospitals throughout the islands.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are some fine motion picture theatres in Kingston and its suburbs. The Carib (air-conditioned), Tropical, Palace (open air), Majestic (open air), Rialto and Tivoli (also open air). The latest English and American films are shown.
MUSIC . . . Concerts at the Ward Theatre, Sutton Street. On Sunday mornings the Jamaica Military Band plays on the grounds of the Myrtle Bank Hotel. This is a spectacular sight.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... The three principal night clubs are: the New Buccaneer, the Glass Bucket and the Colony Club where native and foreign floor shows are presented. In addition, most of the resort hotels offer Calypso music and dancing every evening during the season.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE... 117 Harbour Street, Kingston; at Fletcher and Co., Ltd., agent for Pan American, in Montego Bay.
RELIGION . . . There are churches of all denominations throughout Jamaica.
RESTAURANTS . . . Among the better restaurants are the Myrtle Bank Hotel, Esquire, Fisher's “Snackit," Dixie Doodle; and there are many other restaurants, ice cream and soda fountains, milk bars, etc. in different parts of the city.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The largest stores are on King Street and Harbour Street. Shops are open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. except on Wednesdays when they close at 2 p.m., unless a large “cruise ship” is expected that day, then they will keep open until later in the afternoon for tourists. Among some of the shops are the London Shop, for famous British products; Issa’s; Nathan’s; L. A. Henriques Co.; Stiven’s Colosseum, Ltd.; Dadlani’s, Ltd.; Andrew H. B. Aguilar; East Indian Bazaar. See what to buy on next page.
SIGHTSEEING IN KINGSTON . . . Don’t miss a trip to the Institute of Jamaica, which is located on East Street. There is everything there representing the past and present of the island. There are Arawak carvings and ancient almanacs and live Jamaican animals. There is also the Art, Natural History Galleries and the Lecture Hall. This Museum contains some interesting relics of the early days of the islands. The Myrtle Bank Hotel's private motor launch will take you up the harbor to Port Royal, the historic stronghold. It was just past this point that Admiral William Penn (father of William Penn) and General Venables sailed to capture Jamaica from the Spaniards in 1655. In Port Royal there is the historic church of St. Peter containing antique silver collections of Henry Morgan, one of the early successful pioneers: It was built in 1725. The Hope Botanic Gardens are a sight well worth seeing; located 5Vi miles from Kingston at an elevation of 600 to 700 feet, there are over two hundred acres under cultivation. There is a magnificent collection of orchids, tropical trees, citrus, coffee fruit and other tropical plants. Nearby Hope Gardens, nearly a mile above the sea is Newcastle the site of the Military Station in the famous Blue Mountains.
NORTH SHORE RESORTS—MONTEGO BAY ... Of all the lovely resorts on the North Shore, Montego Bay is by far the best known to travelers. It is the seaport and chief town of the Parish of St. James. It is about 113 miles from Kingston. One of the features of Montego Bay is the unsurpassed sea bathing. The wonderfully clear water with temperatures ranging from 70°-80° throughout the year is delightful. Known as “Fair Weather Bay,” the waters are ideal for sailing. There is little trace of the Arawaks and Spanish invaders, but the Ancient British Fort still stands. The Courthouse here has been called a model of colonial architecture. Montego Bay offers a variety of sports, including tennis, sea-bathing at private clubs, horse racing, polo, golf, badminton, fishing and alligator shooting. This resort has some of the most beautiful hotels in Jamaica. Sunset Lodge (open only during the winter), is the newest. It is a beautiful new building overlooking the Caribbean and is fireproof. There are patios
where you can dine and dance, tennis courts, a private beach, wonderful food and a nearby golf course. This is a favorite of Hollywood and the international set. The Ethel Hart Hotel here too offers its guests modern service and comfort. The hotel has an open air dance floor, excellent food and a bar which can serve any drink you name. There are stores in Montego Bay and branches of the Kingston banks. Rates run about $18 a day up in season.
Casa Blanca Hotel is another of Montego Bay’s fine hotels. It is right on the Caribbean, and has its own bathing club and beach. All the rooms overlook the sea. A native Calypso band plays three times a week, and a full orchestra combined with Calypso orchestra for dancing on Saturday nights. Dress during the summer is informal, but during the winter months evening dress is required. There is swimming, fishing, golf, tennis and polo. Admission to the Beach Club is included in your rates. The hotel has a private tennis club (free to guests). All guests may have the privileges of the Fairfield Country Club where there are seven tennis courts and an excellent nine-hole golf course. Doctor’s Cave Bathing Club is world famous for its coral white sands and crystal like water. There is no undertow. Membership to this bathing club is available to guests in all Montego Bay hotels. Gloucester House, is a small modern, conservative, but excellent hotel on Montego Bay. It’s within a hundred yards of Doctor’s Cave Bathing Club. Beach View is another very good hotel facing the sea, open during the winter season only.
Ten miles inland from Falmouth is Good Hope whose eighteenth century Great House is in the center of a six-thousand acre cattle ranch with acres of coconut palm, horses and good trails to ride. Good Hope takes guests by the week. It is a very exclusive resort. The beach is Florida Beach, a private one near Falmouth. Weekly rates at the Great House are from about $100 to $150 a week. Here is where they serve a punch before lunch, cocktails before dinner, coffee or tea in your room in the morning, have horses to ride, beach facilities, tennis and transportation to the beach.
st. ANN’S bay . . . about sixty miles east of Montego Bay, is where Columbus spent a considerable length of time at Santa Gloria. There is a wonderful beach here and a good hotel, the Windsor. Ocho Rios another north shore resort is about 7 miles east of St. Ann’s. The finest waterfall in Jamaica, the Roaring River Falls, is located here. There is also the Dunn’s River Falls, not so spectacular but good for bathers as it plunges into the sea. So you can alternate between the warm salt surf and the cool fresh water of the falls. The Shaw Park hotel is the outstanding one at this resort. It has lovely grounds, beautiful terraces and a private river swimming pool. The gardens are .filled, with white bougainvilleas, which are rare.
There are two new hotels opening in Ocho Rios, the Jamaica Inn which is the last word in luxury, and the Silver Seas which is also very fine. Annotto Bay which can be reached from Kingston by rail, claims a certain fame from Don Christopher’s Cave nearby. There is a disputed claim that this is where Columbus was stranded with two vessels for repairs. Port Antonio has several attractions, one of them being Boston Beach, the lagoon called the Blue Hole and the Rio Grande are the others. Tourists can take a two-hour rafting trip down the Rio Grande, on bamboo rafts, guided by experts. The rafts hold only three passengers besides the boatman. It’s quite a thrilling experience. The Titch-field Hotel has many attractions for guests. In the Parish of St. Mary’s at Port Maria is Castle Gordon Hotel. Small but very, very good. The rooms have either sea views or mountain views. There is a salt water swimming pool, with sun bathing on the terrace and adjoining private beach club. There is sailing and gondola parties over the Blue Lagoon of Succubus Bay. Music by moonlight and floor shows by native artists are part of the entertainment for guests.
Tower Isle, another beautiful North Shore resort has the excellent Tower Isle Hotel. This is practically a self-contained resort. It’s on a private estate surrounded by coconut palms, lovely poinciana and flowering trees. Each room has a private porch overlooking the sea or a private patio, overlooking the hills. There is a private beach, salt water swimming, cabana club,
[79]