NEW HORIZONS
NEW ZEALAND (Cont.)
DRUG STORES . . . Plenty of chemist’s shops selling pharmaceuticals only. Ice cream sodas can be had, but not in drug stores.
FAUNA . . . New Zealand is famous for its birds. Chief among them, and used as the emblem of the Country, is the kiwi which cannot fly. Because originally there were no mammals in the islands, this bird had no ground enemies. Now, however, he is threatened by imported cats, stoats and weasels. Other indigenous birds include the parakeet, the long-tailed cuckoo, the kingfishers, the woodhen, the kaka, the pukeko. All amazing. The tuatara is a reptile, a sole survivor of prehistoric days. It is found only on small islands where it lives in deep burrows. Game imported from abroad has become a drug on the market, hence the islands are a sportsman’s paradise. Red deer, pigs, hares and rabbit and chamois are plentiful. Pheasant, quail, and duck may be hunted in season.
FLORA . . . Flowers are fabulous. The houhere with its masses of snow-white clusters, blooms in the autumn and varies in height from 10 to 45 feet. The kowhai shrub with its pendulous yellow flowers, grows forty feet; kaka’s beak, dainty and scarlet, is a beautiful thing. The manuka, the rata, climbing clematis, the mountain lily, New Zealand flax and edelweiss are all indigenous. Totara, rimu and kauri are among the native timber trees. Cypress, willows, poplars and pines have all been imported.
FOOD . . . Sea food is excellent. Paua or abalone is plentiful and popular. Rock oysters are a delicacy, try them. Toheroa, New Zealand clams, are enormous. Crayfish and whitebait abound. Fresh water fish is plentiful, too—brook or lake trout, perch, etc. Game dishes are well done here. Because tea is important, scones and sweetened cold pancakes, called pikelets, are popular.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing in and near Auckland with pari-mutuel betting. Almost any week-end or holiday race meetings take place within easy distance of all the larger towns.
LANGUAGE . . . The language is English. Due to the number of troops which was stationed in New Zealand during the Second World War, American colloquialisms are readily understood and some have found their way into the local language.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES ... Good in the cities.
LIQUOR . . . Alcoholic beverages are sold only in licensed hotels and between the hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Scotch whiskey is available only in limited quantities, but beer and ale are plentiful. Imported wines and liquors are also available. Guests living at licensed hotels are permitted to be served up to 10 p.m. while they are guests at the hotel.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are good hospitals and doctors. Inquire at your hotel in an emergency.
MOTION PICTURES . . . American, British and other foreign films. Principal cinemas in Auckland are the Civic (the biggest), Century, Embassy, Mayfair, New Majestic, Oxford, Plaza, Regent and St. James.
MUSIC . . . There is a New Zealand National Symphony Orchestra which tours North and South Island regularly.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Nightclubbing is not an important phase of New Zealand life. But there are a few supper clubs and cabarets. Among them: Trocadero Supper Club, The Gold Room, Peter Pan Cabaret, Civic Wintergarden Cabaret and dancing Saturday evenings at West Haven. Some of the hotels have dancing, too.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Windsor House, 58-60 Queen St. (Tel. 31-834).
RELIGION. . . This is a Protestant country. You will find all denominations represented. Baptist Tabernacle, Top Queen Street; Churches of Christ, Passonby Road; Church of England, Wellesley St. West; Congregational Church, Beresford Street; First Church of Christ Scientist, 116 Symonds Street; Jewish Synagogue, Princess Street; Methodist Church, Pitt Street; Presbyterian Church, Symonds Street; St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Wyndham Street; Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, upper Queen Street.
RESTAURANTS . . . The best food to be had is at the hotels. New Zealanders for the most part dine at home.
SHOPS AND STORES ... Milne and Choyce, Ltd. is one of the largest department stores in New Zealand. It is located on Queen and Wyndham Streets. The Maori Art and Souvenir Depot on Queen Street is good for those novelties you’ll probably want to buy.
SIGHTSEEING IN AND NEAR AUCKLAND ... Auckland was founded in 1840 so don’t expect to find anything very old. But you will find a pleasant city located on two oceans, the Pacific and the Tasman Sea. Within the city itself there are thirty-one parks and reserves. Waitemata Harbor is famous the world over and there are beautiful beaches which stretch to the north and south of the city. You will want to see the view of the city from One Tree Hill, an extinct volcano cone in Cornwall Park. There are, by the way, sixty-five extinct volcanoes in and around Auckland. Drive to Ellerslie Gardens. Through the Kauri and Rimu forests to Titirangi and Atkinson Parks. Take a trip to the top of Mount Eden for another gorgeous view. The scenic drive in the Waitakere Ranges gives you a good idea of the New Zealand Bush. Waiheke Island, about thirteen miles from the city in the Hauraki Gulf, has some wonderful beaches. The island is reached by ferry. Kawau Island, also in the Gulf, is about thirty miles away. There is a hotel there, the Mansion House. Take a sightseeing bus for the waterfront drive which takes you to Mt. Eden, Tamaki Heights and Ellerslie Racecourse. Forty-five miles north of Auckland is Helensville, famous for its mineral hot springs.
waitomo . . . No tour of North Island is complete without a trip to Waitomo Caves about 124 miles from Auckland. Here is the famous Glowworm Grotto which is lighted by glow worms. They must be viewed in silence for they extinguish their lamps at the slightest sound. There are two other beautiful caves here. The Cathedral, the Fairy Walk, the Crystal Palace are all lovely to see. There is a pleasant hotel here, too, the Waitomo.
rotorua . . . (About an hour by air from Auckland) is in North Island in the center of an area of thermal activity. The waters are famous for bathing and drinking. There are many hotels as well as a Government Sanatorium. There is everything here, boiling mud baths, spouting geysers, alkaline and sulphuric waters. There are physicians in attendance at the Rotorua Spa, ready to give special advice and treatment for all sorts of ills. But you don’t have to be ill to enjoy Rotorua. For there is plenty to do even if you do not wish to have the baths. It is the center of Maori life for one thing. And to visit New Zealand without having seen these New Zealanders is unthinkable. Whaka-rewarewa is a Maori village where the Maoris live their own easy, pleasant lives in their carved and thatched huts. Maori carvings are wonderful. During the season Maori concerts are given at Rotorua, and if you are fortunate enough to be there at the time, be sure to attend. Maori girls sing and do a dance reminiscent of the Hawaiian hula. The hand movements give meaning to song. Rotorua is a wonderful place for the trout fisherman. The lakes nearby are filled with Rainbow trout. From November 1st to early March is the best time. There are hotels and fishing camps in Rotorua and nearby. There are two day trips of great interest which may be taken from Rotorua: The Waimangu (Government Round trip) and the Six Lakes Trip. The first of these takes you to Earthquake Flats, site of a vanished lake, down the Waimangu Track across two lakes to Lake Rotomahana where the Waimangu Caldron is seen. Lake Roto-mahana is a huge expanse of hot and boiling water. Cross the lake in a launch and walk to Lake Tarawera which you cross by launch to the buried village of Te Wairoa. The Six Lakes trip takes you, as its name implies, through six lakes including Lake Rotoiti, picturesque and beautiful.
TONGARIRO NATIONAL PARK AND EGMONT NATIONAL PARK . ..
There are two National Parks on North Island that are well worth a visit if you have time. Tongariro National Park is in the center of the island just south of Lake Taupo. There is a splendid hotel here, the Chateau Tongariro, with everything modern—a golf course, tennis courts, etc. There is wonderful fishing here in the mountain streams and some breath-taking scenery. You will see three volcanic cones, two of which erupt spectacularly but harmlessly from time to time. Much of this park is untouched forest. Egmont National Park, about one hundred miles to the west of
[168]