NEW HORIZONS
BERMUDA (Cont.)
are always referred to as colored people. Hats are worn to tea and to Government House cocktail parties. Men must wear coats and ties in better restaurants, and golf hose must be worn with shorts in restaurants.
COMMUNICATIONS... Radio telephone to U. S., Canada, West Indies and England open certain hours every day. Twenty-four hour cable service. Air mail to U. S., Canada is 6d or seven cents.
CURRENCY . . . American and Canadian money legal tender. Bermuda has its own money valued the same as the English pound. No Bermuda money may leave the Island; no English money may come in. The pound is now at $2.82.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . No passports or visas required but return ticket is essential. One carton of American cigarettes is allowable. On departure there is documentary tax of $1.80 on air and ship tickets.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Proof of U. S. Citizenship for U. S. Immigration authorities, such as old passport, birth or baptismal certificate.
DRUG STORES . . . Several drug stores in Hamilton and more in St. George which carry everything.
FAUNA . . . Eleven species of birds call Bermuda home. But each year fifty to a hundred different species seek shelter from ocean storms. Many varieties make the Islands a regular stopping-off place. Game fish abound in Bermuda’s waters (see under sports).
FLORA . . . The Bermuda Lily tops everything else. The lily fields in season are one of the sights of the Island. The oleanders blossom the year round. The Royal Poinsettia is outstanding. All the flowers are spectacular, hibiscus, passion flowers, bougainvillea, birds of paradise, run riot in the gardens. Flowers from other semi-tropical countries have been brought here and they flourish. The famous Bermuda cedar trees are dying out but there is a reforestation program under way. There are calabash and tamarisk, allspice and rubber trees, fig, coffee, and banana trees but the palmetto is the most prevalent of all.
FOOD . . . Almost everything but fish is imported. There are few farms and only a handful of truck gardens. Milk is pasteurized but expensive. There is virtually no livestock because the cost of feed is high. Bermuda lobster is a famous local dish. So is cassava pie, in which the root of the cassava plant is grated to make a flour or meal. The crust is filled with chicken or pork and baked. Sweet potato pudding is native, too. Meals at the hotels, however, are similar to those served in first class hotels in the United States.
GAMBLING . . . Thursdays and holidays there is horse racing at Hamilton Parish with pari-mutuel betting. There are no gambling casinos.
LANGUAGE ... English and American.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . .. Same as in U. S.
LIQUOR . . . All liquor is cheaper here than in the United States. West Indian Rum is the favored drink. Bars open on Sundays at noon, are closed from 2:30 to 6 p.m. Closing time on week days, and from 6 p.m. on Sundays is midnight; 1 a.m. in hotels.
MEDICAL FACILITIES ... The King Edward VII Memorial Hospital is excellently equipped. Hotels and guest houses have lists of English and Canadian trained doctors and dentists.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are three motion picture theatres in Hamilton. Outdoor movies in Somerset and St. George.
MUSIC . . . Colored bands excel at Calypso and popular American music. Too, there are English and American bands.
NIGHT CLUBS—CABARETS . . . Bermuda exists without night clubs or cabarets, but there is dancing at one or the other of the big hotels nightly. No cover charge, no minimum. Bars in restaurants close at midnight. Those in hotels at 1 a.m.
Angel’s Grotto overlooking Harrington Sound comes nearest to being a night club. Calypso singers hold forth nightly and there is dancing.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE...60 Front Street, Hamilton. (Tel. 1055).
RELIGION . . . Bermuda is Anglican (Church of England), but many other denominations have large congregations. In addition to the Anglican churches are: Presbyterian, Wesleyan-
Methodist, Roman Catholic, Christian Science, and Seventh Day Adventist.
RESTAURANTS . . . Majority of hotel dining rooms are open to anyone. Guest houses are the exception. Centered around Hamilton are many restaurants and bars, and there are excellent dining places almost anywhere on the Islands. Tom Moore’s Tavern at Harrington Sound is famous. The Plantation at Leamington Cave is noted for its lobster. La Caravelle in Hamilton is the sole French restaurant. The Queen Cafe serves Chinese food. Among the better bars which serve no food, are: Swizzle Inn, which, as its name indicates serves fine rum swizzles; “21,” which bears no relation to the famous New York restaurant, but which somehow reminds you of it.
SHOPS AND STORES ... Stores are closed Thursday afternoon and 12:00 noon. Open all day Saturday.
There are many fine shops featuring English antiques and silver at prices lower than in the United States. Trimingham’s and H. A. & E. Smith are world famous for sweaters, tweeds and Bermuda doeskin.
SIGHTSEEING ... Not to be missed are the Aquarium, Leamington Caves, St. George, Gibb’s Hill Light, Devil’s Hole, and the south shore beaches. A trip through the Marine Gardens in glass-bottom boats is interesting.
Air-tour of islands is fun. Most fun of all is to cycle around exploring things by yourself, but there are organized tours arranged by Bermuda Reservation Bureau, American Express, Thomas Cook’s, Kitson and Company and Simmons Tours.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Cricket is the “national sport.” Matches are played Thursdays and Sundays. Soccer and rugby during February, March and April. Horse racing in fall and winter. Water carnivals in indoor pools in the winter. Bermuda Invitation Swimming Meet each August. Golf highlighted by Invitation Tournament in February. Sailing Races all year for small boats of all classes. The Bermuda Race occurs every even numbered year.
SPORTS . . . Golf, tennis, sailing (there are small boats for hire which you can sail yourself; larger craft with crew; charter sloops with boatmen). Sailing is year round and important in Island life. Cards may be arranged for The Royal Bermuda Yacht Club. The biennial “Bermuda Race” from Newport, R. I., for the Bermuda Trophy is an event known to all “blue-water” yachtsmen. Three classes of smaller yachts are raced on Thursdays and Sundays throughout the year: International One-Designs, International 14-ft. dinghies, and Luder 16’s.
The annual Bermuda Game Fishing Tournament, held in summer, is well known and creates great rivalry among resident and visiting fishermen. A special Bermuda Club and Bonefish Tournament is held in winter. World record amberjack, bonefish and bonito have been taken from Bermuda waters, and eminently respectable catches of marlin, tuna, rock fish and wahoo are frequent. Boats, complete with tackle and bait, may be chartered for a day’s deep-sea fishing for United States $50 for parties of six or less. Water skiing (equipment may be rented). Horseback riding (saddle horses for hire). Skeet and trap shooting. Golf clubs are excellent. Mid-Ocean Club is world famous. Member guest card is necessary here. For Riddell’s Bay Golf and Country Club, and Belmont Manor Golf Club, cards may be arranged through hotels or guest houses. Swimming in pools or at beaches. Equipment for golf, cycling, fishing may be rented.
TIME . . . Bermuda is an hour later than E.S.T. Daylight Saving Time is in effect in the Summer.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Documentary tax on air and ship tickets collected at departure from Bermuda. 12 /6d or about $ 1.80.
TRANSPORTATION... Bicycles are the most popular form of transportation. Everyone goes everywhere on them. They may be rented by the hour, day, or week. Prevailing rate is about $5 a week. Auto-cycles with one horsepower motors may be rented in the same way.
There are no automobiles for hire, but there are English taxis. Carriages may be hired by the hour or day with rates fixed by the Bermuda Government. Passenger ferries take you from one point to another. Buses traverse the islands but are apt to be crowded and slow. There are no trains in Bermuda. The railroad was scrapped in 1947.
[2]