NEW HORIZONS
ARGENTINA (Cont.)
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS • The chaperone is still in fashion in Buenos Aires. A girl is not permitted out with a boy unless chaperoned. Office hours in Buenos Aires are from 9 to 12 and 2 to 6. Street doors to apartment houses are locked after 9 p.m. Cocktail parties are from 7 to 9. The dinner hour is from 9 on. It is etiquette to send flowers to your hostess after a dinner. Send them the day of the party if it’s a dance or a large affair. Everyone goes to tea rooms in Buenos Aires. Argentinians usually dine and entertain in their homes.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • There are six telegraph companies, including Western Union. Telephones: Telefonos del Estado gives direct international radio phone circuits to the United States and Europe. Overseas and long distance calls may be made from all phones in this company. Air mail. Daily departures.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the peso written with the $. The peso is worth about 7 cents, or slightly less. The cambios or exchange houses cash traveler’s checks at rates set by the government. Banks cash checks and drafts at rates set by the Central Bank. Best carry traveler’s checks.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS NEEDED • • • All articles for personal use are duty free. Permits needed for typewriters, portable radios, cameras, etc. Be sure to declare them. One-hundred cigarettes, 25 cigars may be brought in free. Duty must be paid on new articles for personal use. You’ll need a passport, a vaccination certificate (for re-entry to the United States), a landing card obtainable from transportation companies.
DRUG STORES • • • Argentine drug stores or farmacias sell drugs and toilet articles only. One of the largest drug stores in the world is Franco Inglesa at Florida and Sarmiento. There are many others in every district and they take turns staying open all night. You can get anything you want and most of them deliver.
FAUNA • • • Varied and abundant. Tourists can bring hunting and fishing equipment. Dove, duck and partridge hunting good. Wild game in mountains like puma, jaguar and some deer. Vicuna, smaller than the llama, provides wool for scarves, sweaters and ponchos; very warm. Fishing excellent; lake region trout and salmon superb. Dorado, a river species and without doubt the fightingest fish in the world, is found in the Parana river. National bird is the “hornero,” small and grey; makes its own home of mud and straw with curving entrance which protects it from wind and rain; greatly admired and respected by Argentinians. In contrast is the tremendous condor, inhabiting the lofty Andean peaks.
FLORA • • • Argentina lies on three climatic zones, therefore, its flora is varied to suit climates. Jungle and forests in north; quebracho wood, hard as steel, is abundant. National flower is the “ceibo,” reddish bud of the ceiba tree. Flower vendors have open-air shops along Buenos Aires’ principal thoroughfares. Fruits abundant; grape country is Mendoza, famous wine-producing region. The Botanical and Zoological Gardens at Palermo are rated among the best in the world.
FOOD • • • Steak, steak, steak is the thing most North Americans remember. It is wonderful and cheap. But it is not the only food in the Argentine. So after you’ve had your fill try some of the more exotic dishes. Such as the empanada, a sort of meat pie eaten with the fingers. Some of these include raisins, a hard boiled egg or an olive. Chorizo is a highly spiced version of the hot dog and worth a try. Paella, rice with chicken and sea food is excellent. Puchero de gallina, chicken, sausages, corn, potatoes and squash cooked together is a fine dish. If you can’t get away from steak, try bife a caballo, or steak on horseback. This is a steak with two fried eggs. Dulce de leche is a famous dessert, milk and jam served with thin pancakes.
GAMBLING • • • Horse racing at Palermo and San Isidro with pari-mutuels. There are lotteries every week. The Christmas lottery is the biggest. Gambling other than at authorized casinos is forbidden. But there are casinos in Mar del Plata and Mendoza.
LANGUAGE • • • Spanish with variations of pronunciation and vocabulary compared with pure Castilian. However, English is spoken to a considerable extent.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . These are excellent here. Among the dry cleaners: Sandoz, Avenida
Libertador San Martin 3556, Casa Alvarez, Piedras 1080; laundries include: Aseo Billinghurst, Billinghurst 1560, Del Norte, Cavia 3581, Franco-Argentino Cervino 3373.
LIQUOR • • • Scotch and other imported liquors more expensive (good scotch, that is) here than in the United States. Argentina produces a lot of wine, most of it good. Some of it very good. Some of those recommended are: Bianchi Cabernet— Casa de Piedra. Good domestic champagnes cost about 30 or 40 pesos. Try Federico de Alvear or Monitor. There is a good local beer, too. American cocktails are served by name in all bars, but a martini is called a San Martin.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • There is an excellent British Hospital in Buenos Aires at Pedriel 74. There also are many private clinics or nursing homes. The Little Company of Mary, Avenida Alvear 3576, has English speaking sisters as nurses. There are many excellent doctors and dentists. It is customary for the best doctors to advertise in the local papers.
MOTION PICTURES - • The big movie houses show American films with Spanish subtitles. Occasionally there are English or French pictures. Performances are at 6 and at 10. The big houses are around the Avenida Corrientes and Lavalle which corresponds in a manner to Broadway. Opera, Gran Rex, Broadway, Ocean, Lavalle are modern American style, air-conditioned houses. For newsreels and shorts go to Porteno, Novedades. Prices range from about a quarter to 50 cents.
MUSIC • • • The Teatro Colon is said to be the largest opera house in the world. It is the pride of Argentina. The season starts May 25th with a gala performance attended by the President and his cabinet. The theatre has a National Symphony Orchestra of 100 pieces and its own opera and ballet company. Internationally famous conductors, singers and dancers appear. Dress is a must on gala nights. There is a summer season from January to March in the outdoor theatre in Palermo. There are three other symphony orchestras which are heard frequently during this time. It is interesting that during the opera season the French and Italian operas are presented first. The German favorites toward the end of the season. Other types of music include the native Argentinian folk music, which is basically Spanish. There are many serious pieces of music with a folklore background which are played in the country. There are several native ballets, too, with folkloric background. Then there is the typical Argentine music including the Tango and there are several prominent tango orchestras.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . The better spots include: Gong, Calles Cordoba and Florida, with American and Tango bands. Always filled with smart Argentinians and Americans. Tabaris, which has a floor show and hostesses and is much patronized by tourists. Corrientes 829. Embassy Club, Charcas 628, very swank, good music, fine floor show, Plaza San Martin. Rendezvous, Maipu 854, is one of the smartest clubs, with excellent orchestras and usually a name singer. Don’t overlook some of the folklore spots such as the Achalay with typical Argentinian music and dances. Esmerelda 1041. Buenos Aires is a gay city and a big one, so you may find almost any kind of night life you crave. There are dance halls, small boites, large brassy spots. All just like home.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE • • • Tickets and information “capaasa” at Avenida Roque Saenz Pena 788 and Plaza Hotel.
RELIGION • • • The religion of the country is Roman Catholic but there are churches of all denominations to be found. Anglican: St. John’s Pro-Cathedral; St. Sabiouers, Belgrano St. Paul’s, Palermo. St. Peter’s Flores. Christian Science: First Church, Ayacucho 349; Second Church, Sargento Canral 841. Methodist Episcopal: First American, Corrientes 718; Flores Avellaneda 2538. Boca, Olavarria 675. Scottish Presbyterian: St. Andrew’s, Peru 352; Belgrano, Scot’s Church, Belgrano.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS... The hotels all serve good food. The Jockey Club has a magnificent chef and the food is superb. A card is needed. La Cabana, Calle Entre Rios 436, has wonderful steaks cooked on an open grill. The London Grill, Reconquista 455, is one of the more expensive spots. The food is wonderful and they speak English. ElPescadito, Pedro Mendoza, is in the Boca or Italian quarter by the docks and is a taverny spot which serves fine fish. L'Odèon Esmeralda is excellent and
[119]