NEW HORIZONS
PANAMA (Cont.)
tions at reasonable prices. A quaint native village is a few minutes’ walk from the hotel. Further from the coast are the Pearl Islands. These islands offer the very finest in big game, deep-sea fishing. There are no hotels available and no resort atmosphere. The islands are a true paradise for the serious fisherman rather than a general tourist spot.
THE chiriqui highlands . . . Chiriqui Province, bordering on the Republic of Costa Rica is the coffee and sugar district of Panama. The hunter will find wonderful shooting in these hills that are inhabited by all sorts of wild game. Trout fishing in the streams of 11,000 foot El Volcan is the very best. There are guides and accommodations available for sportsmen at reasonable prices. Air transportation from Panama City is quite moderate. Stay at the Nacional in David, the capital of the Province, or at the Hotel Panamonte at Boquete in the mountains overlooking David.
the central provinces ... The central provinces of Code, Veraguas and Los Santos lie west of Panama City and the Canal Zone. They are one of the first sections of the New World to be settled and offer many spots of historical interest. Also, a great deal of archaeological work has been done in this region that was once the home of the earliest known Indian civilization that pre-dates the Inca and Mayan cultures. Now the entire region of rolling hills and plains is dotted with quaint and colorful villages and farms. Native Panamanian crafts are at their best in this section.
SPECTATOR SPORTS • • • Panama’s spectator sports include racing, baseball and the unique annual fishing rodeo that is becoming increasingly popular with the world’s best fishermen. Baseball holds first place in the interest of the natives. It is played most of the year in various cities of the Republic. Basketball is becoming very popular in Panama. Swimming races and golf tournaments draw crowds, too.
SPORTS • • ■ The fishing is marvelous, both at sea and in the trout streams in the mountains. Exciting big game fishing for marlin, tuna, dolphin, pompano and mackerel can be done at various seasons of the year. Boats complete with bait, tackle, food, and crew are available at reasonable rates on a twenty-four hour or less basis. The best trout streams can be found in Chiriqui, the central province of Panama. The interior of Panama
is a hunter’s wonderland. The mountain jungles abound with big game and wild fowl. Jaguars, pumas, tigrillos and ocelot cats, mule deer, tapir and wild hogs are among the principal animals. The fowl include wild duck, turkey and partridge and some quail. There are guides, horses and all varieties of camping equipment for hire. There is open-season all year round for both hunting and fishing. Panama’s beaches are beautiful and the waters of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans offer wonderful swimming and sailing. Panama has fine golf courses, too. The Panama Golf Club in Panama City has an exceptionally fine course that is available for tourists.
TIME • • • Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING- • - The ten per cent rule applies here on all tipping. Tipping runs pretty much as it would at home because the currency is on a par.
TRANSPORTATION • • • There are cabs and cars for hire in Panama City and other large towns at reasonable rates. Good transportation facilities are available throughout the Republic. Panama is laced with a network of small airfields and air travel is quite moderate. There are also bus and railway systems.
WATER • • • The water is uniformly excellent in all but the most primitive villages. Water bottles and chlorine tablets should be part of your hunting equipment.
WHAT TO BUY - • • Panama hats are good. Leather goods, especially alligator skins are another top buy. French perfume, English and Swedish china, Peruvian silver, Colombian emeralds, textiles of all kinds, Chinese silks and rugs, and Italian and Irish linens are all good buys. The cities of Panama and Colon are very fine shopping centers. Amazing bargains can be had on some products. Goods from all over the world pour into this little crossroads country.
WHAT TO WEAR - - - Lightweight, comfortable clothes are essential in Panama. Cool cotton and linen clothes during the day and lightweight black at night for women. Linen and seersucker suits for men. Formal clothes are worn for evening in the more lavish night spots. Have them cool and colorful. White jackets for men. It is advisable to bring along a lightweight raincoat. The nights are cooler in the mountains and you will need a lightweight topcoat. Cool but durable clothes for sports. Pan American has a checklist for convenience in packing.
This typical costume shows the influence of Panama’s old Spanish culture—photographed at the ruins of the Santo Domingo church in Panama City.
Here in Panama City, a tourist family views a statue of Balboa, the Spanish adventurer who discovered the Pacific Ocean in 1513.
[110]