NEW HORIZONS
ANTIGUA (Cont.)
clothes copied or made up by numerous local tailors and seamstresses at very low cost. Saga Shop and O’Neal’s carry made up local dresses, ties, shirts, etc. Stores close Thursday afternoons and lunch hour between 12:00 and 1:00 p.m.
SIGHTSEEING . .. Dockyard at English Harbour where Nelson, Rodney and Hood were stationed in the Royal West Indian Squadron while pursuing the French and Spanish Fleets is of unusual historical interest. Also nearby is Clarence House, the country house of the Governor, built in 1787 by Duke of Clarence who later became William IV. Fig Tree Drive in the mountainous, tropical part of the island can be arranged by automobile.
SPORTS . . . There is tennis and golf at the tennis and golf
clubs and at Mill Reef Club. There is a race meet held twice a year. Fishing can be arranged by chartering of sloops both from St. John’s, English Harbour, or Beach Hotel.
TIME... Antigua is one hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard time.
TOURIST TAXES ... None.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Automobiles are for hire with drivers or by the week “drive yourself,” first obtaining a visitor’s license by presenting your State license at Police Headquarters.
WATER... Dependent on rainfall for water supply generally used. Soda water, tonic water, coca-cola available.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Light clothes, shorts, sleeveless shirts, no evening clothes needed. Coats in evening.
Guests of the Mill Reef Club are served drinks on the sunlit terrace overlooking the white sand beaches and clear blue-green water.
Cocktails are being served to the guests of the Turtle Gate Guest House in the lovely patio filled with every conceivable tropical plant. The guest house is a charming spot offering restaurant and bar facilities.
Hotel guests hold fish speared in the clear shallow waters near the .reefs which provide excellent fishing for spear and goggle enthusiasts.
Tourists stand on hill in Shirley Heights overlooking Lord Nelson’s Dock Yard beyond which lies the English harbor, typical of the beautiful coastline and unusual coves of Antigua.
[87]