PORTUGAL
	JAN.	WEATHER IN LISBON—Lat. N38°43'—Alt. 285' FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT.									NOV.	DEC.
l Low	46°	47°	51°	54°	58°	63°	65°	67°	64°	58°	53°	47°
Temp. •< High	54°	56°	59°	63°	66°	77°	75°	76°	73°	68°	61°	58°
1 Average	50°	52°	55°	59°	62°	70°	70°	72°	69°	63°	57°	53°
Days of Rainfall	13	12	14	12	9	5	2	2	6	11	13	14
MADEIRA ISLAND
LOCATION . . . Portugal lies between Spain and the Atlantic Ocean, a small rectangle in the southwest corner of the Iberian Peninsula. Lisbon, the capital, is 895 air miles from Paris and 319 air miles from Madrid in the center of Spain.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Lisbon is one of the gayest cities in Europe. Its hotels are fine and its restaurants famous. Portugal is like a picture post card. The climate is ideal, the drives and the scenery utterly beautiful. For something different plan a trip to Portugal where Americans are very welcome, and there are not too many of them. Discover this country for yourself.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 9,000,000, the population slightly exceeds that of New York City and Baltimore combined.
SIZE... 380 miles long and 140 miles wide—about the size of Indiana.
CAPITAL . . . Lisbon, with an estimated population of 1,064,000; a city larger than Baltimore.
GOVERNMENT ... A unitary and corporative republic, the Portuguese Constitution being approved by plebiscite in March 1933. President of the Republic elected through universal suffrage every seven years and congressmen of National numbering 120 elected every four years.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper only about 15 hours (elapsed time) from New York or Boston to Lisbon. By ship, about 8 to 9 days.
LISBON
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Lisbon has very good hotels to fit every taste and budget. The most luxurious hostelry in town is the swank Aviz. Minimum rate is $8.50 single, Continental plan. The Hotel Imperio is very charming. Six dollars for a single on the American plan. First class and more moderately priced is the Avenida Palace Hotel; single rooms on the American plan are $4.60 and $5.50 respectively. These are only a few of Lisbon’s many hotels. Accommodations can be had for as low as $2.80 a day with all meals in the little native hotels seldom frequented by tourists, but full of native atmosphere. Rates are based on official exchange.
ARTS . . . There are Roman, Visigothic, Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque and neo-classic style monuments in Portugal, as well as some of modern architecture. A peculiar Portuguese style, dating from XV and XVI Centuries, draws your attention, as it is exuberantly decorated with nautical and maritime motives. It is essentially the style of the maritime discoveries period. The “Mosteiro dos Jeronimos” and “Torre de Belem” in Lisbon are very representative specimens of that art. There is a Portuguese school of painting (XV-XVI Cen.) with its own characteristics, of which a very important collection can be admired at the Ancient Art Museum in Lisbon. Besides those Portuguese ancient paintings, beautiful specimens of Spanish, Flemish, Italian, German, etc., painters can be admired too. There is also a precious collection of goldsmith art, ceramics, tapestry, etc., in this museum. The “Contemporary Art Museum” in Lisbon and “Soares dos Reis Museum” in Oporto display the most characteristic Portuguese paintings and sculptures of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Remarkable are the “Coaches Museum” in Lisbon with a very singular and rich collection of royal coaches, unique in the world and the “Popular Art Museum” also in Lisbon, marvelous synthesis of the Portuguese people’s life.
BALLET . . . Portugal has a national ballet group called
“Verde Gaio” which features mainly folk motives. Foreign ballets can be seen during the winter season.
BANKS . . . Banco de Portugal, Banco Nacional Ultra-marino, Bank of London and South America, Banco Espirito Santo e Comercial de Lisboa.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; Anniversary of the First Republican Revolution, January 31st; Discovery of Brazil, May 3rd; Day of Camoes, national poet, June 10th; Proclamation of Republic Day, October 5th; Municipal Holiday (only in Lisbon), October 25th; Independence Day, December 1st; The Feast of the Immaculate Conception, December 8th; Christmas Day.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS AND TOBACCO . . . You may bring 400 cigarettes or 500 grams cigars or 500 grams tobacco free of duty. Foreign cigarettes are available. Main American brands can be easily found.
CLUBS . . . Rotary Club, Turf Club, Royal British Club, Club de Golf Estoril, Sporting Club de Cascais.
CLIMATE ... In general the climate of Portugal is quite moderate. The low in winter is seldom below forty and the summer temperatures average around 70 degrees. It is cooler in the mountain areas and gets a bit hotter at the beach. Portugal’s climate is one of Europe’s most pleasant.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Dinner hour is 8:30; if you wish to entertain a Portuguese man and his wife, you may invite them for either luncheon, tea or dinner. Portuguese ladies go out in the evening accompanied by some member of the family.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There are telephone, telegraph and cable facilities in all major centers. Air mail.
CURRENCY.. .The Portuguese monetary unit is the escudo, worth 28.5 to the dollar. Unlimited dollars, escudos or other currencies importable and exportable.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS . . . Your luggage is subject to inspection by the customs authorities, the regulations about
[51]