
BELGIUM
WEATHER IN BRUSSELS—Lat. N50°50'—Alt. 190'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	30°	33°	35°	40°	46°	52°	55°	55°	52°	44°	38°	33(
Temp. -c High	39°	43°	49°	57°	64°	70°	73°	72°	67°	56°	48°	42 ‘
/ Average	35°	38°	42°	49°	55°	61°	64°	64°	60°	50°	43°	38'
Days of Rainfall	15	15	15	16	16	17	16	16	16	17	18	16
LOCATION . . . Nestled among France, Germany, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, and with 43 miles of coast line. Belgium’s oldest and most important coastal city of Ostend is only 55 miles from Dover. Brussels is only slightly over one hour’s flying time by Clipper from London.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This tiny country with its wonderful museums; long stretches of beaches and gay cafes is a marvelous place to take a-holiday. It is clean, modern, honest and very, very gay. You’ll eat some of the finest food on the continent.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 9,000,000. Belgium is the most densely populated country in Europe. The population of Brussels and suburbs, the largest center, is 1,250,000, similar in size to Baltimore and Rochester, New York combined.
SIZE ... A small compact country of 11,755 square miles, Belgium is approximately the size of Maryland. The distance between its farthest points is less than 200 miles.
CAPITAL . . . Brussels. Not merely the capital of Belgium, but the heart and center of the country, it’s one of the largest, richest and most beautiful cities in Europe. Brussels is also the center of the country’s banking and commercial activity. It is noted throughout the world for its architecture.
GOVERNMENT ... A constitutional monarchy with a parliament elected by universal suffrage.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, direct through-plane service from New York to Brussels, 15 hours 25 minutes (elapsed time). By ship, 8 to 10 days to Antwerp, depending on the steamer you use.
BRUSSELS
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Among the principal hotels in Brussels are the Plaza (the swankiest) the Palace which is located right across the square from the Gare du Nord, close to the shopping district; the Atlanta, Metropo/e, Astorias, Albert First, Central and Grand. Rate runs about $3.00 to $4.00 single, per day without meals. If you really want something luxurious and different, stay at La Reserve at Knocke-Le Zoute at Sea. This large, modern establishment is set on a large fresh-water lake surrounded by dunes, 100 yards from the seacoast and opposite to the Casino. There is a golf course, tennis field and airfield close by. Rates run from $4.00 to $6.00 single per day.
ARTS ... Of the many museums and art galleries the tourist should see, are the Museum of Modern Art with works of the nineteenth and twentieth century and the Museum of Ancient Art containing works of the fifteenth to the eighteenth century, and the Musee Wiertz.
BALLET ... By several excellent local companies as well as American, Austrian and Italian.
BANKS . . . Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, 27 Avenue des Arts; The American Express Co. 51, Cantersteen; Banque de Bruxelles, 2 Rue de la Regence (agents for various); Banque de la Societe Generale de Belgique—3 rue Montagne au Parc (agents for various).
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Processions and pageants are frequent in Brussels and when you arrive it is well to ask at your hotel about these colorful events. Some of the interesting local festivities include the Combat of the Lumecon, Trinity Sunday (June); a local version of St. George and the Dragon, on the same day as the procession of the Golden Cart of Ste. Wau-dru; Carnival of the Gilles, Shrove Tuesday (February); Procession of the Penitents, last Sunday in July. In Brussels and throughout Belgium, Kermesse and the National Fete, end of July; Procession of the Giants (first Sunday of September); Pro-
cession of Notre Dames des Malades (mid-September).
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO...American cigarettes are high. Pipes of Belgian briar are excellent and inexpensive.
CLIMATE . . . No extreme temperatures at any season of the year. May through September is the best time to visit Belgium. Brussels is also very worth-while visiting during the period of December 6 through the New Year, at which time the center of the city is completely illuminated.
CLUBS . . . Rotary and commercial clubs in every city.
COMMON COURTESIES...Handshaking when you meet or leave anyone. Bring or send flowers when invited to dinner at a private home.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Cables, trans-Atlantic telephone, air-mail to the United States.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the Belgian Franc worth about two cents ($1.00 equals 50 Belg. frs.) One franc is divided into 100 centimes.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Passport required. No visa needed for period under two months. Vaccination certificate for re-entry into the United States. You can bring in 200 cigarettes, one pound of tobacco or cigars, one opened bottle of wine or liquor and a reasonable supply of food. Additional quantities of liquor can be left in transit on arrival. Cameras must be placed in stowed luggage.
DRUG STORES ... Modern as at home.
FAUNA . . . Deer, wild boars, hares, wild fowl and game birds, wild ducks; hunting is authorized only on private estates, invitations to hunting parties can be obtained through hunting clubs or associations. Fishing is practised on a high level, at sea, on rivers and streams.
FLORA . . . Pine trees are found along the Belgian coast and along the Dutch border. The district of Ghent is renowned for its flowers, especially orchids, which are exported to the whole
[28]