IRELAND
WEATHER IN DUBLIN—Lat. N53°20'—Alt. 30'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
1 Low	35°	34°	35°	37°	42°	47°	51°	50°	46°	41°	38°	35'
Temp. < High	46°	47»	49°	53°	58°	64°	66°	65°	62°	55°	50°	47c
1 Average	41°	41°	42°	45°	50°	56°	59°	58°	54°	48°	44»	4L
Days of Rainfall	21	18	19	17	16	15	18	19	16	19	19	21
LOCATION . . . This island just west of England is divided between the six counties in the northeast part, which is a division of the United Kingdom, and the twenty-six counties which form an independent Republic.
CHARACTERISTICS... Ireland, with its castles, its lakes, its greenness, its soft-voiced people will delight you. Dublin is a charming city, full of interesting things to see. And who can resist the thought of seeing County Mayo, County Clare, the lakes of Killarney and the River Shannon? The people are hospitable, the food good (no austerity here). It’s a perfect place for a quiet vacation with some good fishing arid fine motoring thrown in.
POPULATION . . . The total population of the island is 4,251,753 a few thousand greater than the populations of Philadelphia and Los Angeles combined.
CAPITAL . . . Dublin is the capital with a population of 506,635, it is almost as large as Minneapolis.
GOVERNMENT... Ireland has a republican type of government loosely associated with the British Commonwealth of Nations.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, through-plane service to Shannon, about 12 hours from New York or Boston. Shuttle service from Shannon airport to Dublin. By ship, about 5 days.
DUBLIN
ACCOMMODATIONS ... Top hotel space is very limited, particularly in July-August, tourist high-tide season. True, even at Qther times, as when the races are nearby, or at Christmas, Easter or St. Patrick’s Day. Make reservations well in advance. Rates in best hotels about six dollars per person with private bath (and not too many Irish hotel rooms have them). There may be increased rates at holiday time. Usually rates include room and a full Irish breakfast. Among the best are the Royal Hibernian ($5.60); the smart up-to-date Gresham ($5.35); the Shelbourne, fine, old fashioned atmosphere ($5.60); Russell ($6.65); and the Central, a little less expensive. There are many comfortable guest houses at slightly lower rates. Quoted prices are approximate.
ARTS • • • The National Museum, on Kildare Street, with its collections of Irish Antiquities from Stone, Bronze and Iron Ages, is world famous, particularly see the museum’s collection of native gold antiquities and other Bronze Age relics. Very fine; also the Art and Industrial sections, free. The National Gallery in Leinster Lawn, facing Merrion Square, within easy reach of all parts of town, with as fine a collection of old masters found anywhere outside of London. Fine works by Rembrandt, Rubens good examples of Italian school, wonderful Goya “Spanish Woman”. The Hogarth works, famous Irish painters well represented, Barry, O’Connor, Orpen, the two Hones, among others. National Portrait is under same roof. Open every day, free. The Municipal Gallery of Modem Art, in a fine old Georgian mansion on Parnell Square, a must. Fine works of Continental painters, English and especially Irish, as Hone, Orpen, G. F. Kelly, Shannon, Fisher, Yeats and George Russell. Important sculptures by great Irish sculptor, Andrew O’Connor. The Heraldic Museum, in Dublin Castle, only one of its kind in the world.
BALLET • • • British Repertory Companies, International and Sadler’s Wells Ballet Companies, Grand Opera and Musical Comedy Companies. Season: All year round.
BANKS • • • American Express Company, 15 Leinster Street, Thomas Cook & Son, 118 Grafton Street; Bank of Ireland; the Hibernian Bank; the National Bank; Munster and Leinster
Bank and the Royal Bank are the principal banks in Dublin. All have sub-offices throughout the city; all have their head offices in College Green or Dame Street.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS • • • Good Friday, Easter, Whitsuntide, St. Patrick’s Day, Christmas Day. Local towns may be closed on afternoon of big local race-days. Bank holidays.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO • • • Irish tobacco and pipes (especially good, Peterson’s Dublin). Good cigars in little use, expensive.
CLIMATE • • • Green Ireland has no extremes of temperature. Gulf stream makes for mild weather, but with some rain. August is the best holiday month. The weather’s fine and there’s the Dublin Horse Show and August Bank Holiday week-end.
CLUBS • • • P.E.N. Club, Rotary Club, Publicity Club, Royal Dublin Society.
COMMON COURTESIES—LOCAL CUSTOMS.. • Same courtesies prevail as in America with regard to sending and acknowledgment of gifts, invitations, etc. Christmas is the biggest religious and civic festival of the year; the Shamrock is worn and sent to friends in other countries on March 17th, to commemorate the feast of Ireland’s patron, Saint Patrick.
COMMUNICATIONS • . • Cables, transatlantic phones.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the pound, worth about $2.80.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS. DOCUMENTS NEEDED ... An American needs his passport, but no visa necessary. One thousand cigarettes, 200 cigars or a total of 2*/2 lbs. of tobacco, pint of perfume, $56.00 worth of gifts may be brought in. Only 10 pounds British, any amount United States dollars, Irish currency. You may take no more money out than you bring in.
DRUG STORES • • • Same as at home.
FAUNA • • • Thoroughbred race horses and stud horses and dogs are famous; also all types of sporting and domestic animals indigenous to Western European countries.
FLORA • • • Plant life, vegetation, trees, shrubs and flowers indigenous to the British Isles, i.e., oak, elm, poplar, beech, ash, etc., rose, lily, chrysanthemum, nasturtium, etc.
[6]