NEW HORIZONS
GERMANY (Cont.)
the seashore; St. Martin’s Goose in north-eastern Germany; and Bodensee Felchen (Lake Constance trout).
GAMBLING. . . There are many licensed casinos in the resort spots such as: Baden-Baden, Bad Duerkheim near Lud-wigshafen in the Palatinate, Bad Homburg and Wiesbaden near Frankfurt, Bad Neuenahr not far from Bonn, Lindau on Lake Constance, Westerland on the Island of Sylt, and Travemuende near Luebeck on the Baltic Sea. The Germany-Class Lottery and the football toto under state regulation are very popular.
LANGUAGE . . . English is understood in all the tourist centers, hotels, railroad stations and better shops.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Very good everywhere.
LIQUOR.. . The Germans have famous wines (such as Rhine and Moselle), Bavarian beer, Schwarzwaelder Kirsch (a great specialty) and Steinhaeger, a form of gin, in northern Germany. You can get all other kinds of liquor, too.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Excellent and available everywhere. Ask at your hotel. German doctors are famous throughout the world.
MOTION PICTURES . . . The movie, theatres in Frankfurt show many American and English films as well as German and other foreign ones. Names of theatres: Luxor, Turm Palast, Metro im Schwan, Film Palast.
MUSIC . . . Almost every German city has a philharmonic orchestra and an opera house. In Frankfurt they have the Festival of the Allgemeiner Deutscher Saengerbund in June, and of the International Society for Contemporary Music which is also in June. The Wagner Festivals in July and August in Beyreuth. Some of the world’s greatest composers, of course, have been German—Beethoven, Wagner, Schumann, Bach, and Brahms, to name a few.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . There are night clubs and cabarets in Frankfurt. Some of the best are Astoria-Bar, Trocadero-Bonbonniere, Koenigin-Bar, The Ellis Eliott Bar, Tabu, and the Marie-Luise.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... In Frankfurt: Am Haupt-bahnhof 12, (Tel. 33291). In Berlin: Kurfuerstendamm 227, (Tel. 91-0401): In Bonn: Drachenfelsstrasse 3, (Tel. Bonn 2661). In Hamburg: Ballindamm 25 (Hapag House), (Tel. 33-14-65). In Düsseldorf: Hotel Breidenbacher Hof, (Tel. 10391). In Munich: 3 Lenbach platz, (Tel. 32521; 32524). In Stuttgart: Graf Zeppelin Hotel, (Tel. 93278; 93572).
RELIGION . . . There are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . Grillroom Frankfurter Flof, Restaurent zur Alien Post, Restaurent zum Kaiserkeller, Paulaner Keller (City Betriebe), Ratskeller.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Stores are open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Saturdays 9 to 5). Best shopping area: Friedrich-Ebert-strasse, Zeil, Hauptwache, Goethestrasse, Schillerstrasse.
SIGHTSEEING IN FRANKFURT . . . There are many interesting places to see in Frankfurt; some were destroyed during the war but have been rebuilt, others will be rebuilt shortly. Frankfurt is an ancient imperial city where the election of German Emperors started in 1147. There are many historical buildings, churches and museums. St. Paul’s Church is a landmark, where the first German Democratic Parliament assembled in 1848 (this was restored and re-dedicated in 1948); the magnificent Cathedral, the historical church of St. Leonhard’s; and the church of St. Nikolai, which dates back to the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. A “must” is a visit to Goethe’s House which has been completely restored and is now open to visitors as a museum. The Staedel Art Museum contains one of the finest collections of masterpieces covering all periods of European art, including the famed “Madonna de Lucca” by Jan van Eick. The Zimmer-Galerie Franck is another interesting museum well worth a visit. The Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe University is another place to see. The Palmengarten (Palm Gardens) are a beautiful sight. Here is the greatest collection of tropical and exotic plants in Germany. There are fourteen green houses open to visitors; parks, rose gardens, other flower gardens, rock gardens, a collection of magnificent orchids and cactuses. There is a clubhouse and a restaurant here, too, and regular concerts are given in the parks. The Zoological gardens (oldest in Western
Germany), the woodland stadium, and the spring and autumn trade fairs at the Fair Grounds are something to see. Certainly you will want to see the Allied Headquarters which are located in the I. G. Farben building.
the rhineland . . . There are several package tours up the Rhine by boat or car which are all worth taking, for the Rhine is certainly one of the most beautiful rivers in the world. You might start a trip up the Rhine from Cologne. This is a city which you must visit to see the famous Cathedral (the world’s largest Gothic church). International luxurious first class and good tourist class hotels with rooms with private baths are again available. A typical trip takes you to Bonn, birthplace of Beethoven and the capital of the German Federal Republic; Bad Neuenahr which has a casino; Coblenz, at the junction of the Moselle and the Rhine, where you stay at the Hotel Rittersturz or the new Pfaelzer Hof. Here you take a steamer up the river past the famous castles, ruins and vineyards. You go by medieval villages such as Boppard, St. Goar; past the Lorelei Rock, spending the night at Ruedesheim in the midst of the vineyard country. From here you go by coach along the Rhine to Wiesbaden, the international health resort, with its famous hot springs and wonderful scenery. Thence to Frankfurt.
bavaria . . . Go to Garmisch Partenkirchen for the finest skiing in Germany. This spot has developed since World War I into a winter sports center. It is dominated by the famed Zug-spitze. A cog-wheel railway takes you in one hour and 40 minutes right up to Germany’s highest peak of 9,727 feet. All of Bavaria with the capital, Munich, is in the American Occupation Zone, and therefore is open to tourists, just as all Western Germany and Berlin are.
oberammergau . . . No one would miss going to Oberam-mergau where the famous Passion Play is held. Usually the play is put on once every ten years, but because of the war, 1950 was the first time in sixteen years.
side trips . . . Germany has some of the most famous health resorts in the world. One of the most beautiful is Bad Nauheim, about 20 miles from Frankfurt. Located at the foot of the Taunus Hills, it is surrounded by the woods and orchards of the Wette-rau. It is there that William G. Kerckhoff, an American industrialist, established the Kerckhoff Institute for Research of Heart Disease. There are many places of interest to see in this resort. Here are the Sprudelhof with springs, Kurhaus, pump room and the graduation works of the salt works founded in 1716. Visitors may go through the subterranean plant which distributes the waters for the bathing places. There is a skating stadium here and a huge park of 500 acres right in the center of the town. Of interest also to Americans is the English Church, where there is a mural tablet in memory of James Roosevelt, father of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who was one of the churches’ greatest benefactors. There are foot paths through the Taunus woods to the Johan-nisberg, to Friedberg (Reichburg and the Church of Our Lady) and to Anspach Monastery, all of which should be visited.
Heidelberg ... Of course, everyone knows of Heidelberg, the famed university town in the Neckar Valley. You should lunch at the traditional students’ inn, “Roter Ochse” (Red Ox). Take a trip to the Heidelberg Castle, the Old and New University, the “Karzer” (the old students’ prison), the historic Town Hall, the Jesuit Church and the Holy Ghost Church. There is also the Palatine Museum and Scheffel House. For those seeking a health resort, the radioactive brine springs are highly recommended. From here you can take hiking tours through the Neckar Valley. There are good hotels here, too, including the Reichspost-Reichshof Haarlass, Gaestehaus Denner and the Stiftsmuehle.
baden-baden . . . is probably the spa most familiar to Americans. It is located a short distance from Stuttgart in the Black Forest, which has interesting waterfalls, lakes, woodlands, mountain railroads and motor highways. The scenery is beautiful. Life is gay in Baden-Baden. In addition to the cure service which includes the radioactive common salt thermal springs for water cures, there is plenty of activity. You may gamble at the beautiful casino, play tennis, golf. There is an 18-hole course here, and there are horse races, horseback riding. You can see plays, listen to opera and light opera and symphony concerts.
[34]