NEW HORIZONS
MEXICO (Cont.)
TRANSPORTATION... Taxis are plentiful. Empty ones carry signs reading Libre, meaning free. Cabs don’t have meters but fares are reasonable, and arranged beforehand. Trolleys are plentiful and something of an adventure. They take you to suburbs and residential sections. Busses duplicate trolley systems, and also run from town to town on main highways. Cars may be hired but traffic is frenzied so don’t try it if you are nervous.
WATER. . . is drinkable in most large cities, otherwise no. Plenty of good bottled water available. For distant trips take a bottle of chlorine tablets just in case.
WHAT TO BUY. . . This depends on what you want to spend, what takes your eye and what you can’t live without. Silver is, of course, a staple product. Careful shopping will turn up the unusual; Mexican glassware, pottery, handwoven textiles, lacquers, native baskets, handcrafts of all types. If you go on side tours, various spots are famous for certain things, Taxco for silver, for instance, and beautiful tinware; Oaxaca for pottery and serapes, gold filagree and black pottery; Guadalajara
for handblown glass and pottery. Each state has its own style of handcrafts. It’s a matter of what you like. Perfumes are cheaper than in the United States, but patronize the stores, not street venders.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . Mexico City is very dressy. Black street dresses are fashionable. Dress here as you would in any large United States city. But never, never wear slacks or shorts in public places or on the street. High altitude makes for cool nights and some cool days. Bring a topcoat, raincoat. For coastal resorts, plenty of cotton frocks, sports clothes, bathing suits and pastel silks. Good walking shoes are a must. As there is no central heating, a warm robe is needed in winter. Bring dark glasses. Evening clothes depend upon you and the kind of gaiety you plan, but are not necessary in Mexico City night spots. Sweaters come in handy. Men should take seersucker or linen jackets and suits. Wool suits for Mexico City. Light topcoat. Swimming trunks. Shorts for golfing. Raincoat. Bathrobe. Sports shirts and slacks.
Only an hour by plane from Mexico City is Acapulco with magnificent views of the rugged Pacific coastline. These tourists are on the terrace of the Mirador Hotel.
Short trips from Merida, Yucatan in southeastern Mexico take you to interesting Mayan ruins of ancient cities which date from the 5th century. View above is at Chichen-Itza.
Near the old city of Oaxaca, one of the interesting places to visit are the ruins of Mitla. Here a feather dancer poses on the steps before the Palace.
[105]