TURKEY
WEATHER IN ISTANBUL—Lat. N41°10Alt. 30'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	38°	36°	40°	46°	55°	62°	67°	68°	62°	57°	49°	43‘
Temp. < High	46°	45°	52°	60°	71°	78°	82°	82°	75°	68°	58°	51'
( Average	42°	41°	46°	53°	63°	70°	75°	75°	69°	63°	54°	47
Days of Rainfall	10	8	9	7	7	5	3	4	6	7	11	12
LOCATION . . . Except for a small area south of Bulgaria in the European Continent, Turkey lies in Asia, occupying the peninsula of Asia Minor, across the Black Sea from Russia and across the Mediterranean from Egypt. Istanbul is 843 air miles from Rome.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Turkey is a wonderful vacation spot which is rapidly growing more popular with cosmopolites who are discovering for themselves its wonderful beaches, splendid climate, classic examples of Byzantine architecture, and general atmosphere of sophistication. The hotels are good, the Turkish people extremely cordial and internationally minded. If you are looking for something different with a touch of the exotic but with all the little comforts and luxuries the seasoned traveler demands, you’ll like Istanbul.
POPULATION ... 20,902,628—about twice the population of our New England States.
SIZE ... 294,416 square miles, ten per cent larger than Texas.
CAPITAL . . . Ankara, population 286,000—slightly smaller than Birmingham, Alabama.
GOVERNMENT ... A republic with a National Assembly elected by universal suffrage. The president is elected by the Assembly.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper from New York via London to Istanbul about 27 hours (elapsed time). By ship, about 15 days with stopovers.
ISTANBUL AND ANKARA
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . The Park Hotel with a delightful view of the harbor, is excellent. The Konak is in the shopping center and the Pera Palace is nearby. In Ankara, there is the Ankara Palace Hotel. Rates in the top hotels are about $6.00 double.
ARTS • • • The Museum of Antiquities houses an interesting collection of Turkish history. See, too, the Museum of Ancient Weapons, the Janissary Museum; the Aga Medresseh, the Museum of Ancient Oriental Art and Seraglio Palace Museum.
BALLET . . . There is a good school of ballet and visiting European companies perform during the season.
BANKS . . . Ottoman Bank, Is Bank, Holantse Bank, Banco di Roma, Banca Commerciale Italiana; all cash travelers checks. Also Wagons-Lits Cook (local Thomas Cooks agency) cashes travelers checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . New Year s Day, Children’s Day (April 23), Youth Day (May 19), Victory Day (August 30) and Republic Day (October 29). Christmas and Easter are also celebrated by Christians in Turkey, also two religious holidays—Seker Bayram and Kurban Bayram, the dates of which vary from year to year.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO... Turkish tobacco is, of course, world famous. There are more than twenty varieties of Turkish cigarettes. Turkish cigarettes also come in American and British type tobaccos processed in the American manner. Yeni Harman is this type of cigarette.
CLIMATE . . . Istanbul has much the same climate as New York. But in summer the heat is tempered by cool breezes from the Bosporus by way of the Black Sea. Ankara which has an elevation of 2,600 feet, has a dryer climate with cool nights all summer long. Southern Turkey has a climate comparable to Florida. In general the best time of year to visit Turkey is between June and September.
CLUBS . . . Istanbul Club which is the club for travelers, the Cercle d’Orient, The Press Association are among other private clubs for which cards may be arranged.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . There are no special foibles here. The fez is strictly outlawed now in Turkey and will be seen only as a purchasable curio in the bazaars. Only an occasional peasant woman will be seen veiled, and this is not a true veil, merely a head scarf which can be partly drawn. The Turks are very sensitive on these questions, so tread lightly.
CURRENCY • • • The monetary unit is the lira. The United States dollar equals Turkish lira 2.80.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Cables, air mail to the United States.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Passport and visa. You are allowed fifty cigarettes or 20 cigars; one opened bottle of liquor. Visitors remaining more than a month must apply for residence permit. Visitors en route to other countries by plane or train need no visa for an overnight stay providing they remain at the airport where there are two good hotels.
DRUG STORES carry pharmaceuticals, perfumes, cosmetics, toiletries and jewelry.
FAUNA . . . Wild boar, pheasants, hares, partridge, quail, woodcock, deer.
FLORA . . . Wonderful flowers—abundant roses, carnations, tulips, violets, chrysanthemums, brown orchids, gladioli and many other well-known varieties.
FOOD . . . Wonderful rice and fish dishes. Try Borek, a delicious thin pastry filled with cheese, egg and parsley. Turkish coffee, thick and sweet, is wonderful. Hotels serve international food.
GAMBLING . . . Racing with pari-mutuels at Istanbul and Ankara. This is a national lottery drawn every month.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES... Hotels handle laundry rapidly and efficiently. There are many dry cleaning establishments, too.
LIQUOR . . . Turkey makes some excellent red and white wines. Their liqueurs are wonderful and varied. Roseleaf, banana,
[58]