NEW HORIZONS
IRELAND (Cont.)
FOOD ■ • • Milk fine, pasteurized everywhere. Irish roast beef, famous, good, as in Argentina, and cheap. Hams, bacon traditionally famous, seafood both fresh water and salt, trout, salmon, etc. The little country is exporter of all kinds of vegetables, grains and all these are in most plentiful supply. A land of good living. Game and local cheese in rural towns a feature.
GAMBLING • • • More than 100 race meets, many of two or three day duration, greyhound night racing plentiful. Famous Irish Sweepstakes, several times each year, based on big English classic races, prizes running to thousands of dollars.
LANGUAGE • • • English is spoken all over Ireland and accepted as the language of the country. In some outlying rural and coastal areas, however, can be found districts where the Irish language (Gaelic) is still spoken.
LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING . . . Laundry service fast, clean. Two-day service in most hotels.
LIQUOR • • • For drinkers there is the excellent Irish whiskey, all old-fashioned pot distilled, not so smoky as Scotch, barley base. Dublin’s famous Guinness stout as you know is darker, stronger, than continental beers. For locals, the liquor restrictions slightly complicated, but foreign visitors registered at hotels may buy a drink at any reasonable time. Prices lower than at home, about 25 cents a drink, including Scotch.
MEDICAL FACILITIES - . . Excellent.
MOTION PICTURES • ■ • The Irish are among the greatest Hollywood fans in all Europe; good pictures, cinemas abound; big towns average at least as good as at home. In Dublin some of the leading cinemas, the Savoy, Carlton, Capitol, Metropole and Adelphi are all on O’Connell Street; the Grafton on Grafton Street and the Regal Rooms Cinema and Theatre Royal on Hawkins Street.
MUSIC - • • Since the day in 1742 that saw the first performance anywhere of Handel’s Messiah, at Dublin’s Music Hall in Fishamble Street, the town has had a high standard of musical taste. There is the Trinity College Choral Society, The Royal Irish Academy of Music, and the Feis Ceoil (Music Festival, which first produced John McCormack) along with the Palestrina Choir in the Pro-Cathedral; and the Hibernian Catch Club, oldest male voice choral society anywhere, founded in 1680. Concerts with famous conductors during the winter. Radio Eireann Symphony Orchestra concerts during the winter in Dublin.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS - - - Night clubs and cabarets are conspicuous by their absence. Ballrooms are found in the better hotels, but the Irish wit, gaiety and conversation are at their best in such world famous pubs as the Buttery, Red Bank, and Abbey Bar. Celtic coffee, a wineglass of black coffee, with Irish liqueur whiskey added, plus whipped cream make listening at such places as the Shelbourne Rooms, or the Bailey, a treat, not easily forgotten.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... 35, Westmoreland St., (Tel. 79011/2).
RELIGION • • • Catholic: The Pro-Cathedral, Marlborough Street; Catholic University, St. Stephen’s Green; Augustinian Church, Thomas St.; Carmelite Church, Whitefriars St.; Dominican Church, Lower Dominick St.; Franciscan Church, Church St.; Jesuit Church, Upper Gardiner St.; Passionist Church, Mount Argus, Harold’s Cross. Church of Ireland (Episcopal); St. Patrick’s Cathedral; Christ Church Cathedral; Dublin University Chapel; St. Andrews, St. Andrew St.; St. Georges, Temple St. Several Presbyterian churches, one being Abbey Church in Parnell Square. There are several churches of Methodist and other Protestant denominations. Synagogue, Dolphin’s Barn, South Circular Road.
RESTAURANTS • • • Among the best Dublin restaurants you will find the Unicorn, the Bailey, the celebrated Jammeds, considered an expensive city eating place. Even here the moderate prices will astonish you; and do try the Dolphin, Essex St., where splendid steaks and chops are under a dollar. A popular chain called Mooney's is cheap and good. Leading hotel restaurants, such as the Central, Royal Hibernian and Gresham, all have excellent service and food. So has the Red Bank, D’Olier St., with a good oyster and sea-food bar.
SHOPS AND STORES • • • Most of the city’s smart shops
are on O’Connell Street and Grafton Street. Kevin and Howlin is one of the leading shops for tweeds and men’s wear. Brown, Thomas & Company good for needlework, linens, etc. At Shannon, the custom-free airport, there is an international trading market worth visiting and well-stocked souvenir shop.
SIGHTSEEING • • • Dublin is the natural headquarters for all visitors to Ireland. It is the capital of the Republic of Ireland and the biggest port. It is a city of wide streets, lovely squares and parks and wonderful examples of eighteenth century Georgian architecture. There are houses and buildings by Gandon, Cassels and Johnston who were among the greatest of eighteenth century architects. Ceilings by Angelica Kauffman and mantelpieces by Bossi are famous features of some of these magnificent old buildings. See Mansion House (Dawson Street), The Merrion Square home of Daniel O’Connell. Visit Ely Place, Fitzwilliam Place and St. Steven’s Green. Robert Emmett’s house is on the western side, and the church of the Catholic University erected by Cardinal Newman faces the square, too. Visit Grafton Street. Percy Bysshe Shelley lived at No. 17. Richard Brinsley Sheridan stayed at No. 79. and Tom Moore and the Duke of Wellington attended Samuel Whyte’s famous school. The provost’s house in the grounds of Trinity College is impressive. O’Connell Street, the finest thoroughfare in Dublin runs north from the river. See the Nelson Pillar, the O’Connell Monument. The General Post Office near the Pillar was headquarters of the Irish Volunteers during their Easter Rising. Parnell Square has the Municipal Gallery of Modern Art, the Gaelic League and the Rotunda. Here, too, are the Gate Theatre, the Rotunda Hospital. See the birthplace of George Bernard Shaw at 33 Synge Street and that of James Joyce at No. 41. Visit St. Patrick’s and Christ Church Cathedral. The latter dates back to Norman times; the former, to 1213 A. D. And the Guinness Brewery, one of the world’s largest, is worth a visit. Take a look at Trinity College, the Custom House, the National Library. Spend some time in Phoenix Park, one of the finest in the world, containing a race course, zoo, sports grounds, the official residence of the President, the American Embassy, flower gardens, a lake and the tallest obelisk in the world—The Wellington Monument. Seven miles south of the city is Dun Laoghaire, a fine harbor with steamer service to Holyhead. It is a marine playground for all of Dublin with good swimming. The old village of Dalkey, a mile or so beyond affords a magnificent view of the bay. Bray, four miles further south is a seaside resort with a promenade, and all other resort features. To the north there are picturesque seaside villages of Howth, Skerries, Rush, Lusk and others.
basic side tours . . . You can arrange six- and nine-day tours out of Dublin before you leave home. Or make your decision in Dublin. You may also hire a car with or without driver. A drive-yourself tour of 600 miles in say 7 days is about $45 including petrol. Bicycling is another fascinating way to cover Ireland. There are Youth Hostels and inns everywhere. A clockwise tour of the island is one of the best ways to see everything there is. On the way from Dublin to Cork you see the famous round towers, The Vale of Avoca, made famous by Thomas Moore. The Fountain Hotel, here, is good. The next county is Wexford where you will see Johnstown Castle. The Saltee Islands, famous bird sanctuary are off the coast. Waterford comes next, then the resort of Tramore where there is a race meet every August. In Tipperary County, known to everyone, is the great rock of Cashel. In Cashel, the royal city of Ancient Ireland, stands the remains of King Cormac’s Chapel, a must for all visitors. Cork, the third city in Ireland, on the river Lee has excellent modern hotels. Five miles away is Blarney Castle with the famous stone. Down the river about sixteen miles is Cobh (formerly Queenstown) the country’s main port. Visit St. Col-man’s Cathedral. When you get to Killarney, the lakes, the mountains and the charm of it all will make you want to stay a few days. The Lake Hotel is good. Take some jaunting-car trips, and there are boat trips up the lakes. Visit Ross Castle. Galway is the springboard for sightseeing in western Ireland. Here you’ll find the rugged coast, mountains and fine salmon fishing. Centered about Galway City are dozens of old castles, shooting lodges and country houses which have been converted into hotels and inns.
[7]