NEW HORIZONS
SWITZERLAND (Cont.)
two per person. No more than 2 rolls of unexposed film may be brought in for personal use. Cars may be taken through customs duty free under the auspices of an accredited automobile association. 2 bottles of liquor (one opened) allowed duty free.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Your American passport is all that is necessary to enter Switzerland and identify you while you are there.
DRUG STORES . . . There are good drug stores everywhere carrying American patent medicines and other drug products.
FAUNA . . . The mountain lakes and streams of Switzerland abound in many varieties of fresh water fish. Perch and trout are particularly plentiful. In Alpine regions you will see the brown and spotted cattle whose milk is used to make wonderful Swiss cheeses. The farming and domestic animals of Switzerland are much like our own.
FLORA . . . Alpine meadows are gay with bright wild flowers against the majestic backdrop of the Alps that cover three-fifths of Switzerland’s area. Edelweiss flowers on high mountains. The simple little white blossom is the national flower of Switzerland. In spring the whole country bursts forth in a riot of color and greenery after the serene whiteness of the winter.
FOOD . . . Food in Switzerland varies according to the region—French cuisine in the West, Italian in the South and German cooking in the North and East. There are numerous national and regional specialities. Fondue, a dish made of cheese melted in wine and eaten with pieces of bread, is delicious. Geneva restaurants serve delicately prepared fresh fish dishes, wonderful sausages and hams and excellent cheeses. During the hunting season venison and hare are also popular. Besides the various national cuisines, the Swiss have many delicious foods unique to their own country. Dairy products are a national specialty and the standards for the purity of milk are the highest.
GAMBLING . . . There is quite a bit of betting at the races in Geneva. Casinos with government control and limited play are also popular in Geneva, Interlaken, Berne, Lucerne, Baden-Spa, Ragaz-Spa, Brunnen Thoune, Montreux, Lugano and Locarno. Some gambling is done on other sports events, especially soccer games.
LAUNDRY AND CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Excellent cleaning and laundry facilities are available all over the country. Inquire at your hotel.
LIQUOR . . . Native Swiss wines are tart. The most famous is the Neuchâtel, a dry white wine. The Swiss are great wine drinkers and some of the best regional wines include the fine brands of Lake Geneva, the Valais and the famous Riesling-Sylvaner of the Zurich vineyards. The Swiss also drink a lot of beer, especially in the German-speaking sections. Good liqueurs include the famous Kirsch and Marc, a brandy distilled from pressed grapes after the wine has been drawn off. Marc is a highly potent drink, so beware and sample cautiously.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Switzerland has fine hospitals and well trained doctors and dentists. Ask at your hotel if you need a doctor. Switzerland has many world famous health resorts and sanatoriums.
MOTION PICTURES . . . American and foreign movies are shown all over Switzerland in the original version with German and French sub-titles.
MUSIC . . . Geneva is a great music center. There is a Conservatoire of Music with an excellent series of concerts as well as the municipal symphony programs. Opera enthusiasts will enjoy the fine Geneva season. The openings are among the town’s most glittering social events. The Jacc/ues-Dalcroze Institute of Rhythmics also has interesting performances. One cannot discuss Swiss music without mentioning yodelling. This form of vocalizing is used to call across vast Alpine areas and is often used in native folk music. You’re bound to hear it while you’re there.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CAFES . . . Geneva night life is not notoriously gay, but there are some very nice places to dance, some with floor shows. Among the gayer places are Chez Maxim's, Le Peroc/uet, the Piccadilly and the Moulin Rouge. Good bars include the sunny terrace cafe of the Casino on the lake front, L'Amphitryon, and the bar at the Richemond Hotel which has long been popular with Americans.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE... 66, Loewenstrasse, Zurich. (Tel. 23 77 04).
RELIGION... The principal religion is Protestantism. There are many Protestant churches in Geneva and also Anglican and Catholic services.
RESTAURANTS . . . Geneva is the center of French-speaking Switzerland and French cooking dominates her cuisine. L’Amphitryon has long been a gourmet’s paradise because of its superb wines and food. Also marvelous for its dishes grilled and cooked over a spit is the first-class Auberge VOr du Rhones. La Bergerie has a first-class tea room and bar and a distinguished dining room. Prices are moderate here. The Globe is full of atmosphere and fine French cooking. Go to Des Marins for the best sea food in town. La Perle du Lac serves excellent food in a beautiful situation near the lake front. Dinner is served at midday in Switzerland.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Grand Passage, Printemps, Au Carnaval de Venise, Gubelin (watches), Kohler S. A. (ladies’ outfitter) A 1’Ours de Berne (wood carvings, musical boxes). Shops are open from 8:30 to 12 and 1:30 to 7 p.m. All are closed Monday mornings.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Geneva’s biggest sight is beautiful Lac Leman. The lovely parks and buildings of the League of Nations are along its shores. The serene Alps rise majestically in the background. The ancient cathedral built in 1160 is an excellent example of early Norman architecture. The cathedral holds very interesting historical exhibits. The Tour de l’lle, built in 1290, offers a wonderful view from its ramparts. Also of interest to the tourist are the Reformation Monument, the campus of Calvin’s College, and Town Hall with its fine murals and other exhibits connected with the history of the cosmopolitan city of Geneva.
Colorful quais and market places offer glimpses of the lives of the Swiss people.
Geneva is an excellent center for short tours and excursions to the surrounding countryside and other points of interest along the lake. There are tours to Mont Blanc, just across the border in France, and Chateau de Chillon and St. Cergue. All these trips can be made comfortably in one day and offer the visitor who is staying a short time an excellent chance to see something of the fascinating Swiss countryside.
Geneva is one of the world’s most cosmopolitan cities and the visitor will be fascinated by the many things there are to do and see in this naturally beautiful and historically important town.
lausanne . . . Thirty-nine miles along the lake shore from Geneva is a famous educational center. The university was founded in 1537. There are numerous galleries and museums here. Opera and operetta are given during the spring and summer at the Grand Theatre. The Cathedral is considered the most perfect Gothic building in the country. It stands on the site of one of the earliest Christian churches in northern Europe. See the beautiful stained glass windows. The federal law courts set in a lovely park is another interesting place to visit. The town is called the gateway to the Lac Leman Riviera. A large variety of sports are offered. One can sail and swim off the beautiful lake shore. There is a beautiful golf course surrounded by forests and a picturesque Swiss chalet clubhouse available to tourists. The sailing and golf clubs of Lausanne will give all kinds of information and aid to the tourist. Skating and fishing are popular, too. One may go up into the hills behind Lausanne and see the vineyards and wine presses and buy a few bottles to take home. Beautiful walks and hikes are possible for the less active sportsman. Good hotels are the Bellevue and the Des Palmiers, both are moderately priced. Eat at the Brasserie-Restaurant, La Canva or the Casino Municipal and Bar Monaco.
Lausanne is a good starting point for the skiing and winter sports resort of Montreux a few miles east. There are all summer sports here, too. Good hotels and gambling casinos make it a wonderful holiday spot. Nearby Les Avants, Caux and Rochers de Naye have great skiing. There are lifts and fine trails. Gay, informal Swiss chalets offer good hearty meals and warm accommodations.
berne ... is the capital of Switzerland. It is also the gateway to both the Bernese Oberland and the breath-takingly beautiful Interlaken district, the latter is a must for everyone
[22]