NEW HORIZONS
GERMANY (Cont.)
There are many good hotels here: Brenners Park Hotel, Hotel Renkewitz, Badhotel Badischer Hof, Badhotel zum Hirsch and others.
Bayreuth . . . When visiting Bayreuth, one should not miss going south of this music center to the picturesque medieval towns of Wuerzburg with Baroque Residence Palace of Balthasar Neumann in which Europe’s largest ceiling paintings by Tiepolo can be admired; Nuremberg with its castle, the “Beautiful Fountain”; famed Rothenburg o/Tauber and Dinkelsbuehl, two living creations of the German Middle Ages. The architectonic sight of the cities as a whole are two of Germany’s outstanding National Monuments, the goal of romanticists and artists from all over the world. Lovely valleys and plains, softly rising slopes and strange looking mountain chains, sleepy forests and picturesque river regions are typical sights for drivers and passengers traveling along the “Romantic Road” from Wuerzburg via Bad Mergentheim (health resort), Weikersheim and Creglingen to Rothenburg o/Tauber and thence to Dinkelsbuehl, Noerdlingen, Donauwoerth, Augsburg, Landsberg, Schoengau, Kirch i.d. Wies (Church in the Meadow) and Fuessen with the two Royal Bavarian Castles, Neuschwanstein and Hohenschwangau, in the Bavarian Alps.
lake Constance . . . is the largest lake in Germany situated at the foot of the Alps. Here you will see historic old castles, towns and villages, palaces and cathedrals. The towns and villages are filled with art and culture, offering good and modern hotels. City of Constance: the Insel Hotel is famed all over Europe; Hotel Krone, Hotel Deutsches Haus, Hotel Halm; Ueberlingen: Bad-Hotel and Kurhotel St. Leonhard; Meersburg: Hotel Schiff, Hotel Hecht; Lindau: Hotel Helvetia, Hotel Lindauer Hof, Hotel Reutemann; Lindau-Schachen: Kur-Hotel Bad Schachen.
Berlin . . . Berlin is again offering practically every comfort to the traveler. Western Berlin is again gay, there are the theatres, the opera, night clubs and concerts, and many things to do and see. There are any number of good luxury hotels such as the Bristol, Casino-Hotel am Wannsee, the Park-Hotel Dahlem,
Hotel Stephanie, Hotel Steinplatz, Hotel am Zoo, Hotel Restaurant Heckh, and the Gaestehaus der Stadt Berlin. Rates are moderate. You can go into Eastern Berlin, the Russian sector.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . ., The national sports are soccer and light athletics. There is a great stadium in Frankfurt where swimming, tennis and hockey matches are also held. Nearby you can see golf matches and polo games as well as horse races.
SPORTS... Golf, tennis, swimming, soccer, skiing, athletics, horse races, automobile and motor-cycle races, skating, rowing, fencing, sailing, boxing, hunting.
THEATRES . . . Opera and theatre performances of high standard are in all large cities. Theatres in Frankfurt: Staedtische Buehmen (Boersensaal), Kleines Komoedienhaus, Kleines Theater im Zoo, Intimes Theater, Theater am Rossmarkt. All kinds of German and foreign plays are given in German language.
TIME ... Six hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... There is usually 10 per cent added to restaurant bills and 15 per cent to hotel room bills. However, a small extra tip is usually given when you pay your bill either to a bartender or waiter. If tip is not included on bills, then you tip about the same as at home.
TOURIST TAXES .. . None in Frankfurt. Only in resort places.
TRANSPORTATION ... . Trains, buses and taxis and street cars. Excellent through-trains to all parts of Germany and many cities on the continent. Plane service to these places is very good, too.
WATER . . . Excellent to drink.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Some of the best things to buy are leather goods of all kinds, photographic articles (German cameras are among the best in the world), optical goods, china, ceramics, and jewelry.
WHAT TO WEAR . ., The same kind of clothes that you would wear in New York during the different seasons. No sport clothes in the theatre.
The resort town of Lindau forms an island in Lake Constance on the southern border of Germany. Swiss Alps are in the background.
Proud castles, picturesque old houses and medieval towns along the Rhine give you a panorama of German history from your excursion steamer. A bove view is near Boppard.
This street scene in Dinkels-biihl is typical of the tranquil atmosphere of old Bavarian villages in Southern Germany, about 70 miles northwest of Munich.
Frankfurt and the Rhine-Main area is a good starting point for sightseeing in Germany. Here, a Pan American Clipper lands at Rhein-Main Airport.
s ■


-
&
[35]