ALASKA
includes the Aleutian Islands. The Alaska mainland is due north of Honolulu, and the Aleutians extend as far westward as New Zealand.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . With its high mountains (Mt. McKinley, 20,300 ft.) and mighty rivers (Yukon, 2300 mi.), Alaska is a land of superlatives. For the one Yosemite of California, Alaska has a hundred. The mountains and glaciers of the Rockies are duplicated and a thousand-fold exceeded in Alaska. There is a thrill for every visitor in the “Great Land,” whether it be tangling with a fighting rainbow trout, drinking in a Gold Rush saloon, scaling unnamed peaks, or watching Eskimos carve ivory at Nome. In trackless wilds the hunter or cameraman finds mountain sheep, moose, caribou and the great brown bear, largest carnivore on earth. Accommodations in the territory are comfortable; food, wholesome and tasty.
POPULATION . . . The 1950 decennial census revealed Alaska to be the fastest-growing region under the American flag. Alaska’s total population of 128,643 persons represents a net gain of 78 per cent, more than any other state or territory. About 35,000 are Indians, Aleuts and Eskimos.
SIZE . . . There’s a lot of country in America’s Land of the Midnight Sun. Its 586,400 square miles—one-fifth the size of the United States, and more than twice as large as Texas—are spread over an area nearly one-sixth the distance around the world.
CAPITAL . . . Juneau, with a population of 5,818 within the corporate limits of the city. Greater Juneau, however, has a population of 8,000. Alaska’s largest city is Anchorage, headquarters for the Alaska Defense Command, with a greater population of 30,000. There are 12 cities in the territory with a population of more than 1,000 persons.
GOVERNMENT . . . Purchased in 1867 from Russia for $7,200,000, less than two cents an acre, Alaska became an organized territory of the United States in 1912. Alaska has a Territorial Legislature composed of 16 senators and 24 representatives, which is elected by the people and meets every two years. The Governor and Secretary are appointed by the President. Alaska sends a voteless Delegate to Congress. Many feel statehood is just around the corner.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, non-stop service from Seattle to Fairbanks, 8 hours flying time; non-stop to Ketchikan, 4 hours, and from Ketchikan to Juneau, 2 hours. From Fairbanks to Nome, 3 hours. Anchorage is 5 hours flying time beyond Juneau via Pacific Northern Airlines. By steamer it takes 2Vi days to reach Ketchikan from Seattle. 3 days to Juneau, and 6 days to Fairbanks (via the Alaska Railroad).
JUNEAU
ACCOMMODATIONS... The Baranof Hotel is one of the show-places of Alaska, and very modern; has 96 rooms and rates are $5.50 and up. The Gastineau, under the same management, is less luxurious and less expensive. Hotel Juneau, 40 rooms, is about the same standard as the latter. Rates begin at $3.00.
ARTS . . . The Territorial Library and Museum contains one of the most complete collections of Alaska Indian, Eskimo and Aleut artifacts found anywhere. The library contains thousands of valuable historical books and documents, important to researchers.
BANKS. . . There are two banks, The First National Bank of Juneau, and B. M. Behrends Bank. Traveler’s checks also may be cashed at many business establishments.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS... All national holidays are observed. In addition, there are two territorial holidays: Seward’s Day, March 30; and Alaska Day, October 18. The opening day of the, Juneau Salmon Derby (late in July) is declared a civic holiday.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO... All national standard brands available at same prices as in the United States.
CLIMATE. . . Alaska is not a land of snow, ice and igloos. It is in the same latitudes as Norway, Sweden and Scotland. Its interior climate is similar to that of Montana, Minnesota and Maine. The southern coastal areas are warmed by the same ocean currents that pass San Francisco and Seattle. Best time to visit Alaska is between May and October. Best summer months for sightseeing, June, July and August.
CLUBS. . . Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis, Elks, Moose, Eagles, Toastmasters, Soroptomists and many other business and fraternal organizations.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. Identical with those in the states. The term “sourdough,” typifying a long-time resident, now is seldom used. Likewise, “cheechako,” or tenderfoot, is seldom used.
COMMUNICATIONS. . . Telegraph and telephone facilities to the United States and elsewhere. Air-mail rate is 6 cents per ounce as in the United States. One daily newspaper, with full
[139]