SWEDEN
WEATHER IN STOCKHOLM—Lat. N59°16'—Alt. 35'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
{ Low	22°	21°	24°	31°	40°	49°	54°	52°	46°	38°	31°	24‘
Temp. ) High	31°	32°	36°	46°	57°	67°	71°	67°	59°	48°	39°	33‘
/ Average	27°	27°	30°	39°	49°	58°	63°	60°	53°	43°	35°	29 ‘
Days of Rainfall	15	13	14	11	12	12	15	16	14	16	15	17
LOCATION . . . Sweden occupies the eastern portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula, across the Kjolen Mountain range from Norway. Stockholm, the principal city, is 258 air miles east of Oslo, Norway, about 600 miles northeast of London.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Cleanliness and efficiency, neither one of them obtrusive, are the first things you notice in Sweden. One of the most progressive countries in the world, it likes tourists; its hotels make them welcome, its restaurants offer wonderful food and the scenery itself is an invitation. The Swedes are strong, happy, vigorous people whose zest for life communicates itself to you. Summer with the midnight sun is wonderful. The sportsman will find fishing, skiing and sailing in abundance. It’s the land of smorgasbord, and wonderful foods.
POPULATION . . . 7,046,920, roughly equal to the populations of Chicago, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Dallas combined.
SIZE... 173,400 square miles, slightly over twice the size of Minnesota.
CAPITAL... Stockholm, population 745,936, a hundred thousand less than Minneapolis and St. Paul combined.
GOVERNMENT ... A constitutional monarchy with a King and a Riksdag or Parliament of two chambers.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American’s through-plane service from Boston or New York, about 20 hours (elapsed time) to Stockholm via Oslo; about 19Vi hours, via London and Hamburg. By ship 8 to 10 days.
STOCKHOLM
ACCOMMODATIONS... Stockholm has a hotel or pension to suit every budget. No matter where you stay, you’ll find cleanliness and friendly service. Best known is the de luxe Grand Hotel. It is the largest and most expensive in Stockholm. Rates here begin at $4.00 for a single room. Other first-class and very popular hotels are Stockholm, Castle, Eden Terrace, Carlton and Strand, where rates begin at $3.00 for a single room. Excellent accommodations can be had for $2.00 a day at the brand new Malmen, built and run by an organization specializing in low-cost travel. Pension accommodations are inexpensive and comfortable. Make your reservations in advance, especially during the summer months.
ARTS • • • Stockholm has so many fine museums and galleries that it is hard to decide what to see first. The National Gallery has an excellent collection of Swedish and foreign paintings. The Museum of the City of Stockholm contains exhibits illustrating the history of the town from the Stone Age until the present time. The unique Skansen, an outdoor museum, has exhibits showing the life of the Swedish peasants and an excellent small zoo. Also well worth seeing is the Natural History Museum, the Cyprus Collections and the Royal Armory Exhibit.
RAT,T FT . . . Royal Opera Ballet.
BANKS • • • Correspondents for the larger American banks in Stockholm. Traveler’s checks may be cashed in all Swedish banks, American Express and Thos. Cook & Son.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . January 1 and 6; March 25; Easter Sunday and Monday; May 1 and 20; June 24; and December 25 and 26.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, TOBACCO ... 500 cigarettes or 100 cigars may be brought into the country duty-free. The allowance on loose tobacco is 25 ounces. American cigarettes are available.
CLIMATE . . . Four seasons: Summer, approximately June 1 to September 1; Fall, September 1 to November 15; Winter, November 15 to March 15; Spring, March 15 to June 1. The
summer months are the best time to visit Sweden.
CLUBS . . . Rotary International; Swedish Automobile Association; American Club of Stockholm.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . If you are invited to dine at the home of Swedish friends, arrive promptly and ready to eat. There is no cocktail hour. A great deal of formal toasting goes on at a Swedish dinner party. Never toast your hostess, but toast the other ladies. If you are the guest of honor, make a toast of thanks at the end of the meal.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There are excellent local and long distance phone services. Telegraph and cable facilities can be found in all large cities. Airmail.
CURRENCY . . . The krona is the monetary unit broken down into 100 ore. One dollar equals 5.16 krona.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS . . . Medicines for private use, two opened quart bottles of liquor may be brought in duty free. Firearms cannot pass customs without special permission. Your passport is all that is necessary to enter Sweden. No visa required for a period up to three months.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Your passport is all you need to identify you in Sweden. Bring your driver’s license if you wish to hire a car.
DRUG STORES . . . No drug stores exist in the American sense of the word; however, there are pastry shops called “Konditori” where they serve coffee, etc.
FOOD... The great Smorgasbord tables are once again nearing the level of their pre-war lavishness. There are delicious pressed meats, sausages served hot and cold, salads, fish dishes and innumerable vegetable dishes. Remember when you’re eating it that this is merely a first course and the main meal is to follow. Snaps is drunk with this part of the meal. The Swedish are famous for their dairy products and fine fish dishes. Be sure to eat crayfish in August. Swedish pastries are wonderfully gooey and delicious. Morning coffee and rolls will be served in your room at the hotel and larger breakfasts can be had in the dining room. Food in self-sufficient Sweden is plentiful again.-Meal-
[43]