NEW HORIZONS
FRANCE (Cont.)
use. You need a passport but no visa unless you plan to stay more than three months. You will need a vaccination certificate to get back home.
One still camera and one movie camera with 10 rolls of film for each may be brought in. 50,000 francs may be taken out.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED .. . See above.
DRUG STORES . . . There are many drug stores in Paris and several which make a specialty of American trade with English-speaking clerks.
ELECTRICITY .. . United States electrical appliances can be used in France merely by buying locally a converting plug. This plug fits into the European type electrical outlets and the United States type cords can be plugged into the converter.
FAUNA ... In Paris, mostly poodles and sparrows.
FOOD . . . This is a volume in itself. French food is famous everywhere and Paris has some of the best restaurants in the world. You can find anything you want to eat in Paris at almost any price you wish to pay. Lunch is a two to three hour do involving several courses. The cheese is wonderful, hors d’oeuvres are usually superb, sauces are a national custom, pâté de fois gras is different from anything you’ve had in tins. Coffee is awful, or at least not to the American taste. Try Purée de Marrons, chestnuts cooked with celery, spices and chicken consommé. Wonderful snails in garlic sauce and saddle of spring lamb done in white wine and chopped tarragon. But there are hundreds of other magnificent dishes and regional favorites. The wines range from ordinary to superlative, depending upon price and judgment. They are served with all meals. The French do not drink water. Pastries are famous as are the potages or thick soups. The French do well by fish and salads.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing at Auteuil, Chantilly, Longchamp, St. Cloud, Vincennes and other nearby spots. The National Lottery has drawings every Wednesday. Nearest gambling Casino is Enghien, 10 miles from Paris. Along the R iviera, and at Deauville, of course, the Casinos are famous.
LANGUAGE . . . After two wars shared by the French with G.I.’s and “Tommies,” almost every Frenchman not only can understand English but can now even understand an American trying to speak French.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES . . . Laundry is touch and go. In some hotels it’s fine, in others it’s very bad. In large hotels you can get your clothes cleaned in 48 hours.
LIQUOR . . . French wines, champagnes and brandies have no peer in the world. Liquor is now taxed in France, so drinks run higher than they used to. Whiskey is rare and expensive. Brandy is really the national drink, but you can name your brand only in the best restaurants. But even the “bar brandy” in other spots is better than you often get at home. Vouvray and Mousseux are similar to Champagne but cheaper. The Champagne name, of course, is patented and is applied only to wines from a certain district just as Cognac applies only to the Cognac district. Best try a few wines and brandies and liqueurs for yourself and make up your own mind.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . The American Hospital at Neuilly is favorite of Americans. But there are many English-speaking doctors. Ask your hotel.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are many cinema houses in Paris many of them showing the same features you have seen or will see at home. The French movie industry is going strong and many French pictures are magnificent. Most Hollywood movies have French subtitles.
MUSIC ... The Opera of course is of great importance in Paris. Some of the world’s greatest composers and conductors are French, so there is good music to be heard all the time. Good music can also be heard in celebrated concert halls such as: Salle Gaveau, Salle Pleyel and Palais de Chaillot.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... Like food this would take a book in itself. However, take a look at the Bai Tabarin in Montmartre, one of the most famous night clubs in Paris. There is a floor show. At most night clubs there will be a bucket of champagne on your table whether you order it or not. It is the equivalent of our cover charge only more expensive. Look in at Au Lapin Agile in Montmartre, a spot with atmosphere. Drop in
at Shéhérazade, Le Boeuf sur le Toit. All famous, all good. For big brassiness visit Folies Bergère and Aiglon, Rue de Berri, Casino de Paris. For formal elegance go to Maxim's where on Fridays you must dress; Monseigneur, Carrère, Ciro's.Le Drap d'Or are elegant too. The Lido, Tabarin and Les Ambassadeurs are extremely popular and have floor shows. If you want to get real low-down, there is always the Place Pigalle in Montmartre with its many, many clubs of varying repute. If you hanker after a glimpse of the Existentialists and Picasso, your best bet is the Café de Llore in St. Germain des Prés. Other spots where the prophets of this philosophy may be found are Club St. Germain, Rose Rouge.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE ... 1, rue Scribe; Paris 9e (Tel. OPEra 7670). In Nice, Hotel Negresco, Promenade des Anglais (Tel. 839-52).
RELIGION . . . France is a Catholic country and there are many magnificent Cathedrals which hold mass. There are also jnany Protestant churches: American Church, British Embassy Church, Presbyterian Church, Eglise de l’Etoile; Eglise de Passy, Eglise du Saint Esprit, Eglise de la Mission Etrangère, Methodist Church, Quakers, Russian Orthodox Church, Grande Synagogue.
RESTAURANTS . . . Restaurants are divided into four official categories by the Government. A and B are the best. Lower than that you are apt to find them not so clean, the food not so sanitary. It is always possible to find a good little out-of-the-way spot unspoiled by tourists which has magnificent food and cheap prices. However, here are some of the better known: Maxim's (who are now preparing the meals for Pan American’s crack Clipper flights between New York and Paris), Fouquet's, Crémaillère, the Ritz, La Tour d'Argent, Drouant, La Pérouse, Café de Paris, Joseph, Grand Véfour. Food at the Plaza-Athénée is excellent. Le Quirinal has good Italian food, Chez Doucet is a chain that is well known and one of the less expensive in Paris. For homesick Americans there’s Le Hamburger which serves a club breakfast, American coffee and cheeseburgers. Prunier and Méditeranée specialize in sea food. Pavilion d'Armenonville, Pré Catelan on the Bois de Boulogne have good food and delightful surroundings. Rumpelmayer's serves a fabulous tea. Les Cigognes is new and good. Over on the left bank there is La Coupole and Le Dôme, both cafés beloved in the twenties and still doing business. Harry's New York Bar, famous among generations of Americans, is still at 5 Rue Daunou. The Ritz Bar is still the favorite meeting place of Americans. Montmartre is as cluttered with bars as New York’s Fifty-Second Street. Some are clip joints; some are not. Use your head. Chez Tailleheut is a fine restaurant there. Go to the Café de la Paix of course. There are sidewalk cafés everywhere you turn where it is possible to sit for hours drinking very little or letting the saucers pile up.
SHOPS AND STORES...Aux Trois Quartiers is one of the best department stores in Paris. There is also Au Printemps, Galeries Lafayette and Samaritaine de Luxe. For linens there is Grande Maison de Blanc. The shops on the Rue de la Paix are magnificent. The Rue Royale and Avenue Matignon have the smartest specialty shops. And now the big couturiers have opened what they call “boutiques” in which ready-to-wear merchandise and accessories are offered at far lower prices than in the custom salons. The Bon Marché, the Frenchman’s Macy’s, is on the Left Bank. Don’t miss the “Marché aux Puces,” the famous Flea Market of Paris, reached by Métro to the Porte of Clignancourt, above Montmartre. It’s open every Saturday through Monday.
The better shops and especially big stores (also hairdressers), are closed Mondays. Some shops close during August.
SIGHTSEEING...There are various ways to see Paris. You can do it on your own and discover things or you can go on a guided tour which will probably save you time but won’t give you the same feeling of working things out for yourself. You can hire a cab or walk and explore to your heart’s content. Walk down the Champs Elysées from the Arc de Triomphe and you pass some famous restaurants and hotels. Midway is the Rond Point and from there to the Place de la Concorde you walk down a tree-lined avenue, to Avenue Gabriel where you find public buildings including the Presidential Palace and the American Embassy. At the Place de la Concorde you’ll encounter the Grillon and the Marine Ministry. About two blocks
[18]