NEW HORIZONS
SIAM (THAILAND) (Cont.)
and come back at 11:00 a.m.; Pasteur Institute on Rama IV Road with its Snake Farm where venom is extracted for snakebite anti-toxin. Taxis are numerous and reliable guides are to be had. See transportation.
chiengmai .. .The northern capital of Thailand is the second largest city in the country. Chiengmai is easily reached by air in about 3 hours by a thrice weekly service from Bangkok. Tourists will immediately enjoy a complete change of scenery. While the surroundings of Bangkok are flat and extend into seemingly endless rice fields, Chiengmai in comparison has pleasant surroundings of hilly country side and the famous teak forests. The journey from Bangkok by train takes about 20 hours. New hotels are being built there.
hua hin . . . Thailand’s premier sea resort with a fine beach, good swimming, tennis, golf and sailing. The main season is from December to May. Hua Hin can be reached by air in about one hour, by express train in 6 hours and by road in 5 hours. There is one reasonably good hotel operated by the Railways Department.
ayuthia ... the former Capital of Thailand, founded in 1350, is noted for the ruins of its former palaces and temples, where a vast seated Buddha may be seen. Ayudhya can be reached by river in 6 hours and by road in 3 hours. The road, however, is badly in need of repairs.
lopburi . . . The ruins of this very old city are located 100 miles north of Bangkok. Legend has it that Lopburi was founded in 468 a.d. as the town of Lavo by King Kalanardis. Under King Narai the Great, Lopburi became the capital of Siam. A Greek cabin-boy, Constantin Phaulkon, (The “Constant Falcon”) won the confidence and favor of the King to such an extent that he became what corresponded to The Premier. He induced the King to open diplomatic relations with France, sending Siamese ambassadors to Louis XIV’s court and receiving French ambassadors in Ayuthia and Lopburi. The “Constant Falcon” also persuaded the King to build forts and palaces and in the latter, though basically Cambodian in design, one can see the ruins of what may well have been an attempt to emulate the “Hall of Mirrors” at Versailles. The “Constant Falcon,” with his excessive zeal to convert the King to Christianity, was, with his master, overthrown by envious noblemen, and lost his life in 1688. Lopburi may be reached by train in 8 hours, by river boat in about 10 hours or by car in 6 hours.
angkor wat, cambodia, indo-china . . . Check with Air Booking Center in the Trocadero Hotel regarding their “allexpense air tours” to the fabulous, world-famed ruins of Angkor Wat. The cost per person for a three-day trip, including air passage from Bangkok and return, hotel accommodation, all meals, guides and ground transportation, is approximately United States $75.00. This figure is based on an air charter for a minimum of twenty-five persons.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Fish fighting is practiced informally by natives on Sundays. Kite-flying contests are held on Sundays in the hot season on the Pramani Ground near the Royal Palace (March, April and May) and sponsored by the “Bangkok City Committee for Kite-Flying,” a municipal government department. Boxing takes place every Sunday afternoon starting at 5 p.m. in an outdoor arena. Horse racing takes place every Saturday afternoon at the Sports and Turf Club in Bangkok with pari-mutuel betting. Cockfighting is practiced sub-rosa.
“Takraw” is one of the oldest Siamese games. It is a kind of static soccer. The object of the game is for players who form a circle to send the hollow wicker ball across to one another by hitting it with any part of the body without it hitting the ground. “Takraw” may be seen all year ’round and is in the nature of a “pick-up” game rather than an organized sport.
SPORTS . . . Fishing: There are a tremendous variety of fish in the rivers and the Gulf and fishing trips can be arranged on The Menam Chao Phya River and in the Gulf of Siam. No big game fishing has yet been tried. There is fine duck shooting up the Menam Chao Phya and good rice-bird shooting in the rice paddies outside of Bangkok. Squash Racquets: At the Sports Club. Tennis: There are both grass and clay courts as well as many private courts. Cards to the Silom Club and the Sports Club can be arranged. Golf: There are courses at the Sports Club and the
Turf Club, but cards are necessary. Swimming: There is a good modern pool at the Sports Club in Bangkok and fine sea bathing in the Gulf of Siam (see under Hua Hin).
THEATRES . . . Chalerm Thai Theatre for Siamese plays. All year. 8 p.m.
TIME. . . Bangkok time is twelve hours ahead of New York (EST).
TIPPING . . . Some hotels include a 10 per cent tip on bill, but it is usual to add 10 per cent. There is also a 20 per cent tax on hotel and restaurant bills.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Automobiles may be hired with a chauffeur through the “Air Booking Centre” in the Trocadero Hotel, adjacent to the office of Pan American World Airways. Roads are slowly being repaired one by one, but there is still a long way to go before the main roads out of Bangkok are in serviceable condition for any distance. Road travel is governed by the seasons. During the rainy season (June, July, August, September and October) some roads are impassable. Taxis are plentiful. Bicycles can be rented and the flat countryside around Bangkok makes bicycling easy. However, the average person may find it too warm and perilous, for there is definitely the problem of traffic. In Bangkok you will compete with vast crowds hurrying along in automobiles, buses, bicycles, and “samlors” (“pedicabs,” i.e., rickshaws with a bicycle up front).
airways: Don Muang, Bangkok’s airport is a beehive of activity and has become an important air junction. The continual large flow of air traffic has made it necessary for the government to make extensions to the airfield. Aircraft to and from Singapore, Hongkong, Rangoon, Saigon (in French Indo-China) Penang (in Malaya) as well as Clippers to and from Tokyo, Manila, Hawaii, the West Coast of the United States, and Calcutta, Istanbul, Brussels, London and New York and Boston, touch regularly at Bangkok. In addition, air charters may be arranged to Angkor Wat in the State of Cambodia, Indo-China, and there are domestic services to Chiengmai, Hua Hin, etc. (See SIGHTSEEING.)
railways: The government has recently been buying new rolling stock from Japan which is slowly replacing old pre-war stock, but the railways are not yet back to pre-war standards. The services have been increased and speeded up. See sightseeing. (Note: There is a train service to Singapore via Penang, Malaya (not direct), but nowadays in view of the Communist activities in Malaya, this journey is not recommended.)
WATER . . . Drink boiled water only. Boiled water is left in your bathroom and is generally available in dining rooms.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Siam is noted for its sapphires and zircons. There are many jewelers all over Bangkok where fine stones can be purchased. Good examples of antique jewelry can be picked up from time to time—very handsome, and of very heavy gold, encrusted with rubies and emeralds. Try Ainslee on New Road for sapphires, rubies, emeralds and antique jewelry. Very fine silks and brocades, all hand woven, can be picked up at various cloth shops in the city. Thai Silk Co. Ltd., 430 Suri-wongse Road, is one of the best for all varieties of silks and brocades. Go to Yap Kui Kee or Thai Nakorn for Neilloware and silverware. A craft known only to the Siamese, Neilloware is a form of oxidized silver with inlaid and engraved designs. There are many silversmiths in Bangkok who produce beautiful belts, bracelets, bowls, cigarette cases, compacts, etc. The section called Ban Moh is the home of most of the silversmiths. Nakorn Kasem is the antique dealers’ area. Fine Siamese and Chinese porcelains, antique brocades, sculpture and painting can be found here. Crocodile and snakeskin bags, shoes, belts, wallets at Vilai Sinah and Crocodile Store, both on New Road.
WHAT TO WEAR ... In Bangkok you’ll wear the same sort of clothes as you would in Nassau, Acapulco (Mexico) or Hong Kong. The Siamese and Americans and Britishers resident in Bangkok wear linen suits a great deal, so take along some white linen suits or ones of comparable weight. Of course, those old standbys—a light sports jacket and slacks, will come in handy. The laundry facilities are so good that you can have a linen suit washed overnight. For women, washable linen and cotton dresses are perfect. Don’t forget your bathing suits and sunglasses. Generally speaking, Bangkok is not a “dressy” place.