NEW HORIZONS
CHILE (Cont.)
other sports . . . Favorite sport of the Santiago social set for duck shooting is Laguna de Batuco. Tennis, golf, riding, swimming are all possible in and around Santiago. The Prince of Wales Country club has good golf course. Los Leones Golf Club also has a fine course. Cards are needed. The Polo Club has tennis courts and a swimming pool.
THEATRES . . . The Atelier, the Imperio, and the Municipal, which also has musical performances. All plays in Spanish.
TIME . . . One hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING .. . There is a 10 per cent service charge added by law to hotel bills. Tip bellboys, hat check girls, washroom attendants a few pesos. It is not necessary to tip cab drivers or bartenders.
TOURIST TAXES. . . There are small taxes to be paid at hotels and different resorts, payable according to your bill.
TRANSPORTATION.. .Taxis are plentiful and reasonable.
WATER... It is advisable to drink bottled water. Puyehue bottled at the resort of that name is the best.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Handcrafts are the thing to buy in
Chile. Shopping is not as much of a sport here. Black pottery jars are to be bought at The Market. Hand-wrought copper trays and candlesticks at the copper factory. Choapinos, soft napped wool rugs are handsome. The Chilean wines are wonderful and cheap.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . What you wear depends a great deal upon where you are planning to go in Chile and at what time of year. It is colder toward the south; warmer toward the north.
For skiing in the Chilean Andes, June-September you’ll wear the same kind of ski togs you would in Switzerland or in the United States. The capital, Santiago, has climate similar to that of southern California. It never gets very hot or very cold.
Wear the same sort of thing you would at home in spring.
A fur jacket and topcoat come in handy.
Cocktail parties are dressy, so pack afternoon dress and your newest and gayest hat. The hats of Chilean women are world famous. Flowers and feathers preferred.
Men can wear sports jackets and slacks in town. But regular business suits are more appropriate. A topcoat is a necessity. Evening clothes are not essential unless you are going to be entertained by Chileans at home.
Tourist bus stops on the border between Argentina and Chile at Laguna Frias. The snow-capped Tronador can be seen in the background.
In Santiago, tourists enjoy the flowers in the gardens around the Chamber of Deputies Building.
Vina del Mar, only 120 miles from Santiago, is reminiscent of the French Riviera. Here tourists enjoy the pool at the excellent Hotel Miramar.
The Chilean Army band plays on steps of the promenade across from the new Hotel Carrera in Santiago.
[124]