NEW HORIZONS
CUBA (Cont.)
marlins, pompano, sharks and dolphins. Quite a few types of big game inhabit the Cuban forests.
FLORA . . . The Cuban countryside is a panorama of luxurious tropical vegetation. One sees everywhere the beautiful Royal Palm, and there is an abundance of exotic flowers. The woods of the Cuban jungles are famous for their strength and durability.
FOOD . . . Cuban cooking is of Spanish origin modified by Creole inventions. French cuisine is popular, and there are American dishes served at restaurants catering to tourists. Seafood is a favorite dish. Try cangrejo moro, made with succulent big moro crab and spicy rice; langostino, the giant fresh water prawn best served cold; roast suckling pig, superb in the Cuban manner; and patas a la andaluza, made of beeves’ feet.
GAMBLING . . . is one of the star attractions in Havana. After many changes in policy, the government allows the Casino Nacional to stay open as the only legal gambling house. The national lottery is very popular. Full tickets are $20.00 and up, but fractional ones can be had for as little as twenty-five cents. Children from the city’s oldest orphanage do the fool-proof drawing. Horse racing is at Oriental Park with pari-mutuels.
LANGUAGE . . . English is spoken fluently by those hired in public activities.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Almost all hotels have laundry and dry cleaning service.
LIQUOR . . . Rum is the classic Cuban drink. Cuba is the home of Bacardi rum and Daiquiri and, of course, the Cuba Libre. A Daiquiri or Bacardi cocktail in Havana is a superior thing indeed. Rums are cheap and in great variety. Standard brands of whiskey are available everywhere.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are three hospitals in Havana and many English-speaking doctors. Ask at your hotel, should you need a doctor.
MOTION PICTURES . .. Movies, plays and other forms of theatrical entertainment are shown at Havana’s theatres. Cine America, Avenida de Italia. Movies and shows. Air-conditioned; El Encanto on Neptuno Street. First run movies. Air conditioned; The National Theatre, San Rafael Boulevard and Parque Central.
MUSIC.. .The Auditorium, Calzada and D Streets, Vedado, is the leading Cuban music center. The Philharmonic Orchestra of Havana gives concerts here during the winter season. The handsome out-door Amphitheatre on Belgica Avenue has free band concerts three four times a week. All over Havana you will hear vigorous Latin American dance music at its very best. It’s the home of the rumba, and the conga. If you like Latin-American music, this is for you.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Cuban night life is as gay as any in the world and as varied. The hundreds of little sidewalk cafes open before noon and close in the small hours of the morning. They are wonderful to sit at and watch Havana go on around you. Montmartre night club is one of the best in town. Air-conditioned. No cover or minimum. The Club Zombie is equally chic and fun for dancing; the ceiling rolls back and you dance under the stars. More moderate is the Casablanca, the very gay El Chico, and the famous open-air Tropicana Club. Everybody dances in Cuba and the best of the Afro-American music can be heard at the little smoky native cafes. For wonderful drinking there is the bar at the Hotel Plaza; Sloppy Joe's, long a tourist favorite and the unique arrangement at the Trocadero Rum Distillery; here you can have as many free drinks as you want and sample the delicious buffet. You can’t pay for a thing.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Calle 23 No. 105 Vedado. (Tel. U4911; U4921).
RELIGION. . . Cuba is a Catholic country and there are cathedrals everywhere. In Havana, churches of other denominations include: Episcopal Cathedral, 13th Street, corner 6th Vedado. Baptist, Zuleta and Dragdnes Streets; Methodist, In-dustria No. 82; Presbyterian, Salud 40; Jewish, G. Sy 502 Vedado. First Church of Christ Scientist, Alturas de Almendares, Marianao.
RESTAURANTS . . . Meals are not cheap in Havana. However you will find that there are some excellent restaurants which serve wonderful food. Among them: La Reguladora, one of the
oldest and the finest; La Zaragozana which specializes in sea food; the Cosmopolitan and El Chico Club on a terrace overlooking the sea. Rio Cristal and El Sitio are a little way out of town but worth a look in. The dining rooms in the Nacional and the Sevilla-Biltmore serve international cuisine as well as native dishes. The Florida serves international food and the Paris specializes in French food.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Among the shops, you’ll be pleased to find a Sears Roebuck with a special tourist department specializing in perfumes, liquor, cigars and alligator goods. What’s more, you get a free bottle of perfume with each purchase. Other shops include El Encanto, Fin de Siglo, La Filosofia.
SIGHTSEEING . .. Morro Castle, the fort at the entrance to Havana harbor is a must. Take a launch trip across the bay to it. La Fuerza Castle, the second oldest fort in the hemisphere, is also worth seeing. Make a tour of the colonial quarter with a guide or a good map. There are many beautiful old buildings and colorful streets. Aldama Palace facing the gardens of Fraternity Plaza is an excellent example of early colonial architecture. The San Francisco Convent is a wonderful colonial structure which now houses the Post Office. And of course, the Maine Monument is a must for any North American. The Presidential Palace contains beautiful paintings by leading Cuban artists. The National Capitol is a modern, rather gaudy building which cost about $20,000,000. Paseo de Marti or Prado Boulevard is the center of Havana’s social activities. It is called the ChampsEIysees of Havana. Take a drive along Malecon Drive which extends along the waterfront from the Prado to the President’s Avenue, Vedado. Vedado, the swank residential section, is worth driving through. There are many beautiful homes and avenues. Miramar is another suburb worth seeing. There are drives and guided tours by the score. Or you may take a cab and go where you will. It’s all worth seeing.
matanzas . . . This old city is about 65 miles from Havana. Nearby are the Bellamar Caves which are illuminated at night, and are astonishingly beautiful. Further down the coast is Varadero Beach, one of the most beautiful in the world. There is a large choice of hotels here as at other resorts. Just opened, is the Hotel Varadero Internacional, the ultimate in luxury resorts, with supper club, “name” entertainers, casino, private beach, pool, cabanas—even separate dining room and bar for sun-bathers and swimmers.
santa clara . . . Capital of the Las Villas Province, Santa Clara is a charming inland town in the heart of the Cuban sugar country. This progressive little city offers a mixture of quaint old colonial architecture and customs and fine modern parks and hotels. The old Carmen Church was built by the original founders when the town was called Villaclara. As a central point for excursions to other parts of the Province, Santa Clara has good hotels. Hunting, especially for deer and wild fowl, is good. There are guides, cars and equipment for hire. Visits may be made to the large sugar plantations and modern sugar mills. There are several planes a week to Santa Clara from Havana.
trinidad .. . On the south coast of the island facing the Caribbean is this old colonial city which retains its old-world charm. The Cuban government has recently declared this city a National Monument to preserve its historical landmarks and wonderful old buildings. Here are the palaces of the Iznagas, Canteros and Borrells. There are magnificent collections of antique art held by private families which may be seen upon request. Here you will actually see young men serenading young ladies who hide behind the grilled windows of their houses.
Santiago de Cuba . . . Daily plane service by Cubana, train from Terminal Station, Havana, and bus from Havana daily. It may also be reached by car along the modern highway that splits Cuba down the middle. The city was founded in 1514. Cortez, the great conqueror of Mexico, was the first mayor. There is an enchanting mixture of the old and the new in this busy Cuban city that was Cuba’s first capital. There are narrow, twisting streets and romantic old houses. The country clubs and the yacht club offer transient memberships for tourists. The beaches around Santiago are magnificent. The facilities of the fashionable beach clubs are also open to tourists. Visits to San Juan Tower, the old cathedral and the fort in the harbor will all prove his-
[71]