NEW HORIZONS
)
SCOTLAND (Cont.)
stomach. All right if you don’t remember too much about it. Then too, there is Scotch broth. Simpler dishes are Scotch scones, shortbreads, and the inevitable porridges. The food otherwise is about what you find in England.
GAMBLING. . . There is horse racing in season. No Casinos.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Adequate.
LIQUOR. . . There isn’t much Scotch whiskey in Scotland and what there is is expensive. Some of the lesser known pot still whiskies may be a mixture of Scotch and Irish whiskey.
MEDICAL FACILITIES. . . Among the best in the world. The University of Edinburgh Medical College has few equals. Hospitals are numerous and good.
MOTION PICTURES.. .There are numerous movie houses,, or cinemas as they are called, showing American and British films.
MUSIC. . . The Edinburgh Music Festival is famous the world over. It is held in August and world famous conductors, orchestras, singers and opera companies appear by invitation. The Scottish Orchestra has a concert season in Edinburgh and Glasgow, during the winter season, November to April. There is an increasing demand for ballet, and at the Festival each year visiting ballet companies as well as the famous British ones appear. In 1950 Ballet Theatre, an American company, was a huge success. Edinburgh Castle is the headquarters for the Army School of Bagpipe playing, so it is possible to hear that haunting sad music in the city. The Highlands, of course, is the best place to hear this unforgettable music.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . None as we know them.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE... At Airport (Tel. Prestwick 7272 Ext. 402). In Glasgow (Tel. Glasgow Douglas 2396).
RELIGION. . . Scotland, of course, is a Protestant country. There are many churches of various denominations: Anglican, Presbyterian, Methodist, Baptist, Congregational and Catholic.
RESTAURANTS. . . Cafe Royal, Albyn Rooms, /’Aperitif and leading hotels are all good in Edinburgh. In Glasgow try the Whitehall, The 101 Club, The Grosvenor, The Royal, to name only a few.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Anderson’s, George Street, for tweeds, tartans and Highland outfits. Hamilton & Inches for Scottish Silver Craft. Tensfeldt, Princes Street, for souvenirs. McCalls, Lothian Road, for Celtic and Silverware, and tartan souvenirs. City Glass Co., for old glass. Romanes & Patterson for tweeds, tartans and ladies’ knitwear. Jenners is the largest Department Store.
SIGHTSEEING... Edinburgh, located on the Firth of Forth, is the Scottish capital. It is a beautiful city dominated by the historic Edinburgh Castle which sits on a rock some 270 feet high. The rock falls sharply on three sides to the gardens below it. The Castle has a long and bloody history. Here are the apartments occupied by Mary Queen of Scots when she gave birth to the child who became James I of England. See the National War Shrine here too. The view from the Castle rock is spectacular. You look down on Princes Street, that famous and beautiful thoroughfare, which is lined with shops on one side and beautiful gardens on the other. This is “New Town.” You also see the Royal Mile (Old Town) which leads from the Castle to the Palace of Holyroodhouse, the Royal Residence their Majesties use when in Edinburgh. Here is where Prince Charlie held the historic ball, while at the Castle they were still fighting him. Here, too, are the apartments of Mary Queen of Scots and those of Lord Darnley connected by an inner stairway. Next to the Palace are the ruins of Holyrood Abbey. Darnley is buried here. Parliament House, the famous St. Giles Cathedral, the Law Courts which have marked and made Scottish history. Be sure to visit the National Gallery of Scotland.
Old Town straggles down the side of the rock. Until the middle of the eighteenth century, Edinburgh consisted of this narrow crowded ridge, Here were built the first tall flats, the first tenements. In the latter part of that century began the expansion which is now New Town. Princes Street is the dividing line. In the middle of the Gardens is the “Mound” an artificial hill constructed in the middle of the city. Visit the Zoological Park
on the slope of Corstophine Hill; it is one of the largest in Europe. Visit also Craigmillar Castle which is about three miles from the city. Greyfriars churchyard you must see, also the Sir Walter Scott Monument, the Royal Scottish Academy, and you won’t want to miss seeing Arthur’s Seat which is a mountain within King’s Park adjacent to the Palace. This is a hill some 800 feet high. There are daily tours around the city run by the Edinburgh Corporation. Edinburgh has a very fine zoo at Carstopherine and Glasgow too has one at Calder Park.
side trips . . . Prestwick Airport, at which you land, is situated in one of the most historical parts of Scotland. It abounds with tradition, and as is well known, is the home of Burns. Visit the birthplace of Burns in Alloway and the memorial where many treasures dear to the heart of Burns lovers are on display. A visit to this Burns Memorial in Alloway holds much of interest. Set in a most picturesque spot, on the banks of the river Doon, with that most famous of bridges, the “Brig O’ Doon” taking a prominent place in the picture. The Auld Kirk of Alloway is the scene of Tam O’Shanter’s run-in with the witches, as described in the famous poem of that name. The scenery leaves little to be desired, and numerous hotels are situated near the Airport, which while not offering the best in everything, retain a complete charm of their own. Around the area of the Airport, there are 16 Golf Courses capable of testing the skill of the best. All are open to visitors.
South of Edinburgh is the border country, the country of Sir Walter Scott. His home at Abbotsford is worth seeing. The ruins of Melrose and Dryburgh Abbeys are nearby. Peebles on the River Tweed is the center of the Border country and is a famed holiday spot. There is good fishing here. North Berwick, 22 miles east of Edinburgh in East Lothian, has three golf courses and top hotels for the golfer. The Marine Hotel is excellent.
On the west coast, below Glasgow, lies Ayr the center of the Robert Burns Country. Ayr is a modern seaside resort and is filled with things to interest the Burns lover. Hotels are the Station, the County, the Ayrshire and Galloway. From Ayr it is possible to make a “Burns” tour of Dumfries (in the South, near England), Thornhill, Cumnock and other points of interest.
The island of Arran, picturesque and colorful, lies off the coast of Ayrshire in the Firth of Clyde, southwest of Glasgow. It is about twenty miles long and is the quintessence of all Scotland.
Coming north from Ayr or Arran you reach Glasgow, the most important seaport in Scotland. The Glasgow Art Galleries are famous. Hotels include the Beresford, the Central and St. Enoch.
the trossachs. On the way to the Highlands you come to theTrossachs, a strip of land inWestern Perthshire. Tours through this region are by bus or a combination of train, bus and steamer. It is the site of Sir Walter Scott’s “Lady of the Lake.” Gateway to this lake region is Stirling (36 miles northwest of Edinburgh), an historic town with a castle on a high rock which views the spot where Robert Bruce defeated the English at Bannockburn. Stay at the Golden Lion Hotel. From Stirling you go to Callander which is the gateway to the Trossachs. Here you take a bus to Trossachs Pier and stay at the Trossachs Hotel. Then on to Loch Katrine, Stronachlachar, and Loch Lomond, famed in song and verse. Loch Katrine is the scene of Scott’s “Lady of the Lake” and is revered as such.
Loch Lomond is the Queen of the Scottish Lochs and is surrounded by mountains. There is an interesting trip, too, from Callander to Loch Tay to the northeast. Here you see thatched cottages, picturesque villages, mountains sloping to the loch shores. It is very old, very beautiful.
the highlands ... The imaginary line of demarcation between the Lowlands and the Highlands of Scotland is drawn between the Firth of Clyde on the west and the Firth of Tay on the east. Above this imaginary line lies the rugged, beautiful but often dour country of the Scottish Highlands. Here is where you will find Balmoral Castle, the Island of Skye with Dunvegan Castle, the oldest inhabited castle in Britain, which is the ancestral home of the McLeod clan.
From the west coast start your tour of the Highlands at
[15]