NEW HORIZONS
PORTUGAL (Cont.)
inspection being similar to those in force in all European countries. You may bring in your camera freely as well as your cigarette lighter.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . United States citizens need a passport, but no visa. For return to the United States, you will need vaccination certificate. Bring your international license if you plan to hire a car.
DRUG STORES . . . There are chemist shops in all big towns that can supply you with every drug product.
FAUNA . . . North zone: cattle, sheep especially on the west coast and on the mountains; hogs in Alentejo; horses in Ribatejo.
FLORA ... North zone: pines, chestnuts, oaks and beaches. South zone: oaks, fig trees, almonds, locust. Main farm products: corn, wheat, vegetables, olive trees, cork, grapes and fruits.
FOOD . . . Sea food is the national specialty. The Portuguese have many marvelous ways of fixing lobster and tuna particularly. French and Portuguese cooking overlap in many restaurants. The Portuguese make quite a thing of tea, a meal that invariably includes deliciously gooey pastry, another item they have a talent for doing divinely. You can make a whole meal of the wonderful and varied fish soups and chowders and native brown bread and cheese. There is all sorts of good eating to be done all over Portugal. Many countries have influenced the nation’s cookery.
GAMBLING . . . Casinos with roulette at resort towns such as Estoril, Figueira da Foz, Povoa do Varzim, Espinho.
LANGUAGE ... In the principal tourist centers you will have no trouble getting along using only English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Available in Lisbon. A man’s suit takes about a week to dry clean and costs around 45 escudos, i.e., $1.50. Price of a shirt washed and ironed is 3 escudos, about ten cents.
LIQUOR .. . Port wine, probably Portugal’s most famous product, is at its best here. Other fine wines are available. So are most whiskeys in good bars. The small native spots usually serve wine only. You may take as much wine and liquor as you wish out of the country. Port wine comes from the Douro Valley.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are a number of motion picture theatres in Lisbon showing Portuguese and foreign films including the best American pictures. Among the well known ones are St. Jorge, Tivoli, S. Luiz, Politeama, Eden and Condes. Theatres open at 3:15 p.m. and shows are available also at 6:15 and 9:30 p.m.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Good modern hospitals in the large towns and small first-aid stations throughout the country. Ask at your hotel if you need a doctor.
MUSIC .. . You can hear fine concerts with famous maestros at the Teatro Nacional de S. Carlos in Lisbon during the winter, played by the National Symphony Orchestra. Every year there is an Opera season featuring the most famous lyric players. Military bands in summer play concerts in the main public gardens. Fado, the typical Portuguese song of Lisbon, can be heard every night in the typical restaurants of Bairro Alto. This is an approximation of the American blues and torch songs.
NIGHT LIFE AND CAFES . . . You’ll get the best in native atmosphere in the little cafes that are mainly frequented by Portuguese. Here, amid smoke and wine, the eerie fades are sung by entertainers and customers alike. These haunts are found mainly in Bairro Alto, one of the best of them being the Luso. Gayer and more conventional night clubbing at Pigalle, Tagide, Negresco, Nina, the Wonder Bar in Estoril. There is dancing at all these places. Other gay night clubs where you can enjoy yourself are the Arcadia, Cristal, Maxime. Good bars include the Rex, Americano, the English Bar, the Iberia. Dining at the A viz Hotel is very chic. See also Restaurants below.
PAN AMERICAN OFFICE . . . Sociedade Portuguesa de Agencias Aereas, Lda. Praca dos Restauradores 46 (Tel. 21181).
RESTAURANTS . . . Besides tasty Portuguese cuisine, excellent French, Italian and Austrian cooking can be had in Lisbon. The most elegant eateries in Lisbon are Tavares, Gondola, Al-valade and Negresco. The food is superb and rather expensive at about six dollars, including wine. The Aquario, Chave d'Ouro, Imperio, Gambrinus and Iberia in the center of Lisbon’s business district are very popular and moderately priced. For Austrian
food the Chave d'Ouro and Horcher are among the best. Rossini and Gondola serve fine Italian food. Typically native spots include the Machado, Mesquita and Adega da Lucilia. Among the plushiest tea rooms in town are Caravela, Imperio, Benard, Alvalade and Riviera.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Lisbon is a picturesque city, built, like Rome, on seven hills. The buildings are painted various pastel shades and the green hills and the blue sea make a wonderful backdrop for this colorful town. The Belem Tower, built in the early sixteenth century is a wonderful specimen of the Manueline style with some Moorish influence, as its architect (Arruda) was one of the chief builders of the Portuguese fortresses in Morocco. The view from the ramparts is breathtaking. The churches of Lisbon represent every conceivable style of architecture. Seeing them all would be impossible. Among the most beautiful and historically important are the Jeronimos Monastery and Church. In Manueline style and its cloisters of two pavements is looked upon as one of the most remarkable in the world. The cathedral blends Romanesque and Gothic styles and contains wonderful tomb sculptures of the fourteenth century. The city of Lisbon is crowned by a picturesque Moorish castle of the tenth century. The broad and beautiful Avenida da Liberdade runs through one of the most fashionable parts of Lisbon. Be sure and see the fabulous greenhouses of the Estufa Fria . . . “cool garden” ... In Edward the Seventh Park nearby. A visit to the harbor and the native fish market will give you an excellent chance to see the natives in their tartan plaid costumes, reminiscent of the Scottish dress. The Botanical and Zoological gardens are among Europe’s finest. Black Horse Square in the lower part of the city that was rebuilt after an earthquake in 1755 is surrounded by fine classical buildings. You will find that Lisbon’s hills would be rough going if it weren’t for the “ascensores,” out-door elevators, that lift you up the hills for less than half a cent. Eiffel designed a number of these unique structures. These are just a very few of the things to see in Lisbon. The tourist could wander for days through the quaint narrow streets along the wide modern boulevards and never cease to be interested by the unique and varied sights.
estoril . .. Only 15 miles from Lisbon is Estoril, Portugal’s fabulous seaside resort town. The beaches are magnificent and the climate is good all year round. The Palace Hotel is first class. It is surrounded by a lovely park and its facilities include fine golf links, a swimming pool, private beaches and tennis courts. The hotel maintains a gambling casino as exciting as any of the Riviera and splendid restaurants. Rates at this luxurious hotel are from five dollars a day with meals for a single room. The Atlantico is more moderately priced, rates beginning at $4.00. It is a very good place to stay. There are stables in Estoril and beautiful bridle paths along the beach and up in the hills. It is one of Europe’s loveliest and gayest resorts. A short drive from Estoril is the town of Sintra, called a little Eden by Lord Byron who lived there for five years. The ancient Moorish castle stands in stern grandeur high above the town. The view is glorious. Visit also the Palacio de Sintra with its beautiful Moorish tile mosaics and lovely fountains and gardens. But the most enchanting thing about this little town is the scenic beauty of the landscape. There are good hotels in Sintra, including the Hotel Central and the Costa. Rates are reasonable.
setubal . . . Surrounded by orange groves, the lively town of Setubal is situated at the mouth of the Sado River. It is Portugal’s main fishing port. The Church of Jesus is a masterpiece of Manueline architecture. The painted panels are excellent examples of the Portuguese Renaissance school of painting. The ruins of Cetobriga, destroyed in the fifth century, are fascinating and so is the old fortress of St. Phillip, built in the sixteenth century. The medieval fortress of Palmela is a characteristic example of its era and the view from the towers encompasses all of Sintra, Setubal and Lisbon. The native market places are colorful and intriguing. There are very fine little restaurants, the best in native cooking and atmosphere. Hotels in Setubal include the Naval Setubalense, a fairly good hotel with very moderate prices. Near Setubal lies one of the most beautiful Portuguese beaches, the “Portinho de Arrabida.” Another is at Praia da Rocha on the southern coast. Evora, 68 miles from Lisbon is rich in artwork.
[52]