NEW HORIZONS
PERU (Cont.)
testimony to the mystery and beauty of the Inca civilization. The ruins have not been restored. They remain as Senator Bingham found them. There is now a road to Machu Picchu called El Camino de Hiram Bingham. It was opened in 1948. There is a tourist hotel which is small but has good food. Trips must be arranged from Lima or Cuzco. But it’s a “don’t miss” trip.
puno ... on the shores of Lake Titicaca, the highest lake in the world, is just across from Bolivia. Overnight steamers make the run at least once a week in each direction. The lake itself is well worth seeing and there is the good Hotel Puno operated by Peruvian Hotel Company.
arequipa . . . This is Peru’s second largest city. It is flanked by three volcanoes. The center of the city’s life is, of course, the Plaza de Armas. The city has a magnificent climate, gardens which bloom the year round. Many of its churches and homes are gems of sixteenth century Spanish architecture. Leatherwork is a specialty of the region and it may be had for prices way below those at home, also interesting pottery figures. There are race courses, two stadiums, a swimming pool and lots of interesting things to see. One of the Peruvian Hotel Company’s excellent tourist hotels, Arequipa, is here. Also the Quinta Bates, a charming inn run by a Scotswoman known all over South America as Tia (Aunt) Bates.
Trujillo . . . Northwest 315 miles from Lima is Trujillo, a typical Spanish colonial city. The Hotel Trujillo is good and there are others, including the Jacobs, the Grau and the Libertad. There are many ruins nearby. Most of them dating back to the Chimus, a pre-Inca race. Chan Chan is the most significant of these. This is a city of adobe, a great deal of which still remains standing.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . You can find almost any kind of sport you want. Horse racing, every Sunday. Bullfights, December to February. Peru has the only woman bullfighter in the world, Conchita Cintron. You buy seats at the Plaza de Toros for about a dollar. Cockfighting at the Coliseo de Gallos. Usually Sundays and holidays, but better call for dates. There are automobile races, fencing, yacht races, cricket matches, bicycle races. Boxing matches are held at, Luna Park. Soccer at the Estadio Nacional. Basketball is played at night. Baseball is popular, too. Horse shows at the Club Hipico Peruano. Polo matches at the Polo Club.
SPORTS . . . There is excellent swimming and bathing along the coast at the many beach resorts. Surf-boarding in the Hawaiian manner is a growing sport here. The Lima Golf Club has a good golf course. Guest cards can be obtained. Also in San Isisdro there is a Bowling Club. The Lawn Tennis Club has fine courts (also serves food and has a swimming pool). Cards arranged for sponsored tourists. Years ago the Peruvian streams were stocked with rainbow trout and you can cast for them in most of the streams. If you hanker for deep-sea fishing, you can arrange for it at almost any beach resort. The Humboldt current, like the Gulf Stream, makes it fine sport. Pucusana, fifty miles down the Coast is a fishing center.
THEATRES. . . The theatre is important in Lima. And there are many legitimate and musical productions. There are usually two performances, at 6:45 and at 9:00. Matinees are at 3:30. Teatro Municipal and Teatro Segura are the two most important theatres in Lima.
TIME . . . Same as United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . There is a ten per cent service charge added to your bill at most Peruvian hotels. Where this is not the case, add the usual fifteen per cent tip.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis are plentiful and cheap. Prices should be determined beforehand. There are many buses but they are usually crowded. There are streetcar lines which go to nearby resorts. Cars may be hired for about $15 per day.
WATER ... It is best not to drink the water in Peru. Bottled waters: Viso and San Mateo. Also Coca-Cola, Crush, Sparkling Orange, etc.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Silver, of course, in jewelry, tea sets, antique silver, all cost far less than at home. Indian textiles hand loomed and hand spun. Llama-lined jackets and Peruvian Indian costumes. Look for the cloth dolls dressed in Indian costumes. They are a tourist favorite. Lima’s market on the Jiron Ucayali is one of the sights of the city. The better shops have fixed prices but in the market bargaining is accepted practice.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Take warm clothing to Peru. Clothing that is suitable for spring and autumn in the States. Tropical clothing is not practical. Be sure to take a topcoat. Lima is sophisticated and formal. It is a city of traditions. Take your newest and smartest clothes and remember no slacks or shorts. For men, wool suits, a topcoat are necessary.
High in the Andes, the ruins of the ancient Inca civilization are a remarkable sight. A couple in native dress (above) at Macchu Picchu, an easy side trip from Lima or Cuzco.
Above, a herd of llamas are being taken through Cuzco, the ancient capital of the Incas, only two hours by air from Lima.
In Arequipa, 3 hours by air from Lima, the façade of the 360-year-old church of San Augustin shows carved motifs typical of Spanish colonial buildings in Peru.
[129]