NEW HORIZONS
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA (Cont.)
north of the city through delightful suburbs. The views are wonderful. You will of course drive through “The Wilds,” a reserve for South African flora bordering Houghton Drive. During the spring months of September and October it is at its best. This preserve is about 10 minutes from the city and is worth seeing. Nearby Johannesburg there are many pleasant resorts where there is good boating and fishing. Black bass and trout fishing at Florida Lake is known throughout South Africa. Hartebeestpoort Dam is near Pretoria the capital of South Africa. The Publicity Association gives detailed information on everything in the city.
pretoria is about 35 miles from Johannesburg and it is called the “Flower of the Transvaal.” In the late Spring thousands of Jacaranda trees spring into bloom and it is a sight famous throughout the continent. There are interesting historical buildings, the house that Winston Churchill escaped from in the Boer War; President Kruger’s House, the Union Building and Gardens and others. Jacaranda Week when the trees bloom is a time of festivity and there is actually a contest to choose “Miss Jacaranda.” Hotels include, Polley's, Tilsim, Union. About 25 miles from Pretoria is the famous Premier Diamond Mine where the Cullinan diamond was found in 1905. This mine is working again after being shut down for several years.
victoria falls . . . One of the great natural wonders of the world, Victoria Falls are on the Zambesi River between Northern and Southern Rhodesia. Discovered by the immortal Dr. Livingstone in 1855, they have become the mecca of tourists. At their greatest height they are about twice as high as Niagara, and are more than a mile wide. The Main falls are 273 feet high and the Rainbow Falls about 325. The best time to view the falls is from June-October. The volume of water in April is so great that mist and spray obscure the view. During June-October it is warm in the daytime and very cool at night, so take warm clothing along for evening wear. There are paths and walks all along the Falls from which the various cascades, pools and cataracts may be seen. There is also a trolley service from Victoria Falls Hotel to various vantage points. There is a bridge across the Falls into Northern Rhodesia which is open to motor and foot traffic. The Falls consist of the Rainbow Falls, perhaps the most spectacular, The Boiling Pot, Silent Pool, and Palm Grove. There are motor launch trips up the river to Kandahar Island the camp site of Livingstone. This is a day excursion and is fascinating. You pass Lodando Island, where occasionally hippopotami are to be seen. Crocodiles abound, too. The Victoria Falls Hotel is luxurious. It faces the Bridge and Whirlpool and Palm Grove are visible from it. There is an open air swimming pool, dancing, excellent food and comfortable rooms. Rates are about $5 a day single and up. There is a rest camp nearby and a camping site for tourists who do not wish to stay at the hotel. Wherever you are in South Africa, don’t miss Victoria Falls.
Kimberley, the famous diamond mining center is in the Northern Cape region about 300 miles from Johannesburg and 650 miles from Capetown. You may go by plane or rail. The Kimberley Diamond Mine is about a mile wide and is often referred to as “the big hole.” This mine has been abandoned, but special observation posts have been constructed so that visitors may see the amazing 450 foot hole. It is a sidewalk superintendent’s paradise. There are, of course, active mines at Kimberley which may be visited. The dominating Company is the De Beers Consolidated Mines, Ltd., founded by Cecil Rhodes and Barney Barnato. Shaft mining replaced open mining in the latter part of the nineteenth century. Visitors may see displays of uncut diamonds and other interesting features. De Beers arranges tours for visitors. No uncut diamonds may be bought except from licensed dealers.
kruger national park ... In the North Eastern Transvaal Province along the border of Portuguese East Africa is Kruger National Park some 200 miles long and from 30 to 60 miles wide. This is the world’s most famous game sanctuary where all the wild animals of the African jungles: elephants, lions, giraffes, cross word puzzle animals like Kudu and Impalas, antelope, vervet monkeys and many,many others are to be seen from your car. No one is permitted to leave his car. The park is sub-tropical
and the open season for the entire park is May 29th to October 15th. The Southern area as far north as the Sabi river is open the year ’round. The rest of the park is closed to visitors from October until June. South African Railways and travel agencies arrange inclusive tours for you if you wish. Or you may hire a car and drive yourself. It is about a seven hours drive from Johannesburg. It requires a week to really see Kruger Park. There are 15 camps throughout the park where tourists may stay. Accommodations are comfortable, with all modern conveniences. You must arrive at a Rest Camp before sundown so it is well to have a reservation. Camps and restaurants are European managed. The largest and most luxurious camps are at Pretorius Kop and Skuzuka; these two have luxury cottages with two bedrooms and bath and kitchenette. It is also possible to stay in Rondavels (round huts) with thatched roofs at the various camps. There are six entrance gates to the park and you get your permits there. Meals are obtained at the various stores in the camps. From Johannesburg, the Pretorius Kop entrance is most convenient. The Rest Camp is just a few miles from the gate. You will go from here to Skukuza passing the Hippo pool. The Camp at Skukuza is the largest in the park and holds 750 people. If you go north toward the Limpop River, Kipling’s “grey green greasy Limpopo,” you go past Letaba a favorite spot for the elephants, then to Shin-wedzi in the middle of the Mopani tree forest. These trees have heavily scented leaves. From here you go to Punda Maria and Pafuri. Plan if you can to enter by one road and leave by another; in this way you see much more of the park and many, many more animals. Guides are not necessary as the roads are all well marked. “Baby” cars are not advisable. The whole place is fabulous, a sort of never never land and something you will never forget. You may photograph the animals at will. The camera has replaced the gun in Kruger National Park. You have opportunities as nowhere else for photographing every type of animal at short distances from the comfort and safety of your car.
SPECTATOR SPORTS... Ice hockey, oddly enough, at the Olympia Ice Rink, Bowls and of course Polo. Bowls is played on grass greens. Our Bowling is known in South Africa as skittles and isn’t much played.
SPORTS . . . There are about 18 golf clubs in and around the city and two municipal courses which are open to visitors. Cards are needed to play at the Country Club in Auckland Park, the Turffontein Golf Club, the Royal Johannesburg Golf Club and others. There are innumerable outdoor swimming pools. Tennis may be played at the Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Grounds, a card is necessary. You may play badminton if you like. At Florida Lake nine miles from the city, there is excellent black bass and trout fishing.
THEATRES . . . Visiting companies appear in the season (middle of May through September) and there are various local dramatic societies which hold forth the year ’round. His Majesty's Theatre is the newest. There is also the Empire.
TIME . . . Seven hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING .. . There is no service charge added to your bill so tip about 10 to 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis are plentiful and not expensive. Outside of the Municipal area you must set your price with the driver. There are trams and busses to take you all over the central section and suburbs. There are cars for hire.
WATER ... You may safely drink it.
WHAT TO BUY . . . South African Stinkwood articles, brooches, trays, etc. South African pottery, tiles, wall plaques, etc. South African bead work, basketware, wooden earrings, pottery. Buy at Durban African Market or African Territories.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Light weight silks and cottons, if you are going in the warm weather. In any case you’ll need a topcoat or a fur jacket, for the nights are apt to be quite chilly. Dinner clothes come in handy. A suit is necessary. Men need slacks and sports jackets, topcoat, felt hat and dinner clothes. Clothing for South Africa depends entirely on where you are going. For Natal and Durban you need the lightest weight clothes you have, but for Johannesburg and other places in the Transvaal you’ll need something warm.