NORWAY
LOCATION . . . Norway extends along the western part of the Scandinavian peninsula from a latitude the same as that of Scotland to well above the Arctic Circle. Oslo is the same distance by air from London as Chicago is from New York.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Norway is a long rangy country with terrific distances. The population is of course almost completely pure Aryan. They have a zest for life that will exhaust the average American. It is the land of the fjords, mountains, valleys and plains. And up North it has the midnight sun so that it is almost constant daylight from April to mid-August. The scenery is magnificent, the people cordial, friendly and scrupulously honest. Hotels are good and food is now plentiful. It is a rugged country but the cities are cosmopolitan.
POPULATION... Estimated 3,200,000. Norway has fewer people than Chicago.
SIZE . . . Although the total area is 124,556 square miles, about the same as that of New Mexico, Norway is shaped like a spoon extending from New York to Miami.
CAPITAL ... Oslo, a city of 450,000, the size of Kansas City.
GOVERNMENT ... a constitutional monarchy with a king and a parliament known as the Storthing, but thoroughly liberal and democratic.
HOW TO GET THERE . . . Through-plane service by Pan American Clipper to Oslo, via Iceland, about 18 hours (elapsed time) from New York or Boston. By ship, about 10 days.
OSLO
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . Norway’s hotels are crowded, so make your reservations well in advance. Completely redecorated is the beautiful Grand. Located in the middle of the city on the Karl Johans Gate, the rates are from $3.00 a day for single room and bath. Quiet and gracious service is the keynote at the Bristol. Rates begin at $2.00 at this excellent hotel. Another first-class hotel in the same price bracket is the Continental. More moderately priced accommodations can be found at the “KNA” (Royal Norwegian Motor Club). Rates begin at $1.75. The Mission hotels are a good bet all over Scandinavia for those with limited budgets and a taste for simple comfort.
ARTS . . . Oslo has a large variety of museums and galleries. The Viking Ship Museum is unique of its kind. Ships and other objects of old Viking culture are on display. The Ski Museum has exhibits tracing back 2500 years in the history of this sport and method of transportation. The National Open Air Museum is a restored village of Medieval Norwegian times. The Vigeland Museum contains the work of Vigeland, Norway’s greatest sculptor. The Historical Museum is devoted to ethnological and artistic exhibits of Norwegian culture. The Museum of the Polar Ship Fram has interesting exhibits concerning this ship’s famous arctic expedition and other polar explorations. Also of interest are the National Galleries, the Museum of Industrial Art and the Theatre Museum. Most museums open at noon and admission is usually free. The Kon Tiki raft is also on view.
BANKS . . . Bank of Oslo; Realbanken; Credit Banken; Chase National Bank. Most hotels and the American Express Company will also cash traveler’s checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS .. . January 1st; May 17th, Independence Day; June 7th, King’s Return; Christmas Day; Good Friday and Easter.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS AND TOBACCO . . . American and British cigarettes are not obtainable. Take all you can tote in. Pay the duty, it’s worth it. However, local brands of American
blended cigarettes are good.
CLIMATE . . . There is no night in Norway from April until September, an ideal time to visit this country. The northern lights are exotically beautiful during these months. Norway is never very hot in the summer. Temperatures average up to 70 degrees and about 25 degrees in the coldest weather. For winter sports, February, March and April are ideal.
CLUBS . . . Rotary Clubs have headquarters in most large centers.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Ration cards are necessary to buy food in shops, but not restaurants. Clothing is rationed and not available to tourists. Eiderdowns take the place of top sheets even in the hotels.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Telephone, telegraph, and cable facilities are at full pre-war efficiency in Norway.
CURRENCY . . . The krone is the principal monetary unit. There are 7.15 kroner to the dollar.
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Unlimited dollars, 2 bottles of liquor, 400 cigarettes or 80 cigars or 500 grams of tobacco may be brought into Norway duty free. You need no visas to enter Norway, only your United States passport.
DOCUMENTS REQUIRED . . . Your passport is sufficient identification. Bring your driver’s license if you wish to hire a car.
DRUG STORES . . . Norwegian drug stores carry many American products or their European equivalents.
FAUNA . . . Norwegian waters abound with many species of fish. Both salt water and fresh water fishing is excellent. Big game animals include bears, elk and reindeer. Many small wild animals are found in Norwegian forests including wolf, fox, linx, otter and beaver. There are also game birds, grouse being the most abundant.
FLORA . . . The beautiful forests of Norway are mainly spruce, fur and pine trees. Birch trees are everywhere. The vegetation of the valleys of southern Norway is very beautiful.
[40]