NEW HORIZONS
MEXICO (Cont.)
SHOPS AND STORES . . . The parade of shops is endless. The Avenida Madero is like the Rue de la Paix in Paris. Sanborns is famous for textiles and handcrafts. Tillett’s, on Paseo de la Reforma, has those wonderful handblocked prints. Mexican jewelry of handmade silver can be bought anywhere and every.-where. Among the good silver shops are Sanborns, Calpini, Prieto, and Vendome. Weston’s, Madero 13 for antiques and curios. Perfumes are lower priced than at home. Be sure to visit the markets. There is one in every district. Each one sells pottery, glassware, textiles, serapes and jewelry. The National Pawn Shop turns up a bargain now and then, too. It’s a national institution worth a look. Mexican tinware and Mexican lacquer is to be found everywhere.
SIGHTSEEING . . . There is so much to see in Mexico City and elsewhere in the country that you have to take your choice and not be greedy, unless you have a lot of time. Guides are available and the government requires all bona fide guides to be licensed. Don’t take chances; hire them through hotels or tourist bureaus.
Mexico city . . . The museums are mentioned under arts. La Catedral on the Zocalo is the oldest church on the American continent; Chapultepec, a forest park with a castle on a hill, reached by the Paseo de la Reforma, a boulevard built by Maximilian. It dates from’pre-conquest times and is one of the most beautiful parks in the world. It contains a zoo and a lake; there are band concerts, promenades and wide, shady walks. These are mere highlights. There is much, much more to see. The Franciscan Monastery at Churubusco is worth a trip. There are many short one-day trips from Mexico City. Among them consider: Sanctuary of the Virgin in La Villa de Guadalupe, accessible by trolleys and bus. Patron saint of Mexico; The Pyramids at San Juan Teotihuacan, and ruins of a sacred city. (This is about thirty miles from Mexico City); Xochimilco floating gardens and flowery canals; beautiful church and monastery. Allow about half a day.
Cuernavaca ... 46 miles from Mexico City. A fashionable resort once favored by Cortes, Maximilian and Carlota. See Municipal Palace with Rivera murals donated by Dwight Morrow, Borda Gardens. There are pyramids, lakes, cathedrals, quaint streets, wonderful old houses. There are many good hotels, American plan. Many have gardens, swimming pools, bars. Shops filled with handcrafts—hand-blocked sheer wools, silver, and printed cottons. There are many short trips of interest out of Cuernavaca too.
taxco ... 101 miles from Mexico City. Beautiful, unreal town, surrounded by hills. Several first-class hotels and bars. De La Borda, 55 pesos up, American plan; Rancho Telva under Wells Fargo management, 55 pesos up, American plan; Victoria, 55 pesos up, American plan. Paco’s Bar and Berta’s are popular. Streets are cobbled, houses climb the streets on different levels, with overhanging balconies. This is the silver center. Sunday is Indian market day and worth seeing. Mexican tinware abounds.
acapulco . . . 282 miles from Mexico City, about 60 minutes by plane. Magnificently beautiful coastal resort on the Pacific. The oval bay is surrounded by mountains and the scenery is fantastic. Hotels are numerous and range from super de luxe to modest. The Las Americas, El Mirador, Caleta and Papagayo start at 60.00 pesos; the Majestic at 75.00 and the Reforma-Casablanca and Club de Pesca at 90.00. Many lower priced hotels: the Bahia, Del Monte, La Quebrada, etc. Swim at Caleta in the morning, at Los Hornos beach in the afternoon; see the spectacular diver at the La Perla Club. Hotels arrange fishing and hunting. Shops are filled with handcrafts.
oaxaca . . . 330 miles from Mexico City, less than two hours by Pan American Clipper. Very old, pre-Spanish city with year-round pleasant climate. Located in semi-tropical valley near jungle beauty and mountains. Several good hotels, all American plan, notably: Marques del Valle, 16 pesos up; Monte Alban, 20 pesos up; Oaxaca Courts, with cottages, swimming pool, 40 pesos up. See the archeological site nearby at Monte Alban; the ruins at Mitla, forty-five minutes away; the church of San Felipe Neri with Churrigueresque altars; the Cathedral; the Church of Santo Domingo with its genealogical tree of the Virgin; La Soledad with the famous shrine of the Virgin. City market is picturesque, and on Saturday natives from surround-
ing villages come to buy. Serapes, black glazed pottery, blankets, thin woven straw mats, obsidian and jade idols are outstanding here. Hunting is excellent.
paricutin ... In state of Uruapan. This is the new volcano which erupted in a cornfield in 1943. One of the sights of the country. Make your headquarters in Uruapan at the Hotel Mirador. Visit Paricutin by car and horseback. Eruptions occur at irregular intervals. Effect at night is staggering. Dress warmly and have goggles or glasses to protect your eyes.
popocatapetl . . . Most famous extinct volcano in Mexico. Headquarters for sightseeing are at Puebla, fourth largest city in the Republic. Hotels are reasonable and comfortable. This volcano may be climbed. Trips are made regularly by Mexican Exploring Club. Guests are welcome. Arrangements can be made through hotels in Mexico City or Tourist Bureaus. Puebla is famous for its hunting.
yucatan . . . Three hours by air from Mexico City, on the Gulf of Mexico. This is where the great Maya civilization flourished. All social classes speak the Mayan language, and native men and women always dress in white. Women wear their hair in coiled braids piled on the head and tied with colored ribbon. The ruins of Chichen-Itza, Uxmal and Izamal are accessible from Merida, the capital of the state of Yucatan. Merida has four hotels. The Merida is the newest, 20 pesos up, European plan. Merida itself is picturesque and the Yucatan Museum houses an interesting collection of Mayan relics. Chichen-Itza is an archeological wonder. The ruins of the once great Maya city are fabulous. The Temple of the Warriors, the Round Tower, the Great Temple of Kukulkan all testify to the remarkable culture and progress of the Maya civilization. Mayaland Tours maintain Mayala'nd Lodge located near the ruins of Chichen-Itza. The ruins of Uxmal, 58 miles south of Merida, are reached by bus or taxi. The Nunnery, the Governor’s Palace, The House of the Prophet, a pyramid surmounted by two temples, are marvelous to see. Izamal is older than Chichen-Itza but is less frequently visited. Chichen-Itza really gives you the flavor and highlights of one of the oldest civilizations. The weather in Yucatan is hot and humid. Take summer clothes. A topcoat is necessary (at night), and sun glasses, for the light is blinding. Never walk in the sun bare headed, and a pith helmet or native hat woven of hemp is a good idea. Yucatan is a hunter’s paradise. It is filled with pheasant, deer, wild turkey and tropical game. You can hunt alligators too, if you feel like it. It is possible to visit other Maya ruins from Merida, but special arrangements are necessary. Kabah, Sayil, Labna in the Yucatan jungle, can be reached by Model T Ford only. And it is a trip for the hardy.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Baseball; boxing and wrestling (Thursday and Saturday in the Arena Mexico); bullfights from October to March every Sunday at 4 p.m.; Chareadas or Rodeos every Sunday morning at Rancho del Charro. Football (Soccer) in season; horse racing from October to April, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday; Jai Alai, nightly except Monday.
SPORTS . . . Golf at Chapultepec Golf Club and Mexico City Country Club. Cards can be arranged. And at the Churubusco Country Club. Hiking is a good sport in Mexico. Group hikes are conducted by the Y.M.C.A. Hunting and fishing permits may be obtained at the Departmento Forestal y Caza, Edison 145, Mexico City, and the Secretaria de la Marina, Azueta No. 9, respectively. Permits are needed for inland and deep-sea fishing. Polo at Polo Club de Mexico. Riding horses may be hired from several stables, called Pensiones. Tennis may be played at the Reforma and Churubusco Country Clubs. Swimming is done in pools. Best of these are located on the Puebla road.
THEATRES . . . There are two vaudeville houses, the Lirico and the Follies. Other theatres featuring modern plays by Mexican and foreign authors are Arben, Fabregas and Ideal. Two performances are held nightly, at 7 p.m. and 9 or 10 p.m. Tent shows, where you pay by the act, are a novelty and very informal, but colorful.
TIME. . . Same as United States Central Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Tip here as you would at home, ten or fifteen per cent. Overtipping gets you nowhere. Don’t tip cab drivers.
[104]