NEW HORIZONS
JAPAN (Cont.)
Within half an hour of Kobe are the picturesque Nunobiki Waterfalls. You may drive to the summit of Mt. Rokko back of the city and play golf on an 18-hole golf course at the very top. Take a ferry to Miyajima (Shrine Island) which is noted for its shrine built on supports running into the sea. The Main Shrine is connected with subsidiaries by galleries which stretch over the sea so that at high tide the Shrine seems to be afloat. Sacred dances are performed here by Shrine maidens. Miyajima is an excellent summer resort 12 miles southwest of Hiroshima and is noted for its cherry blossoms. Iwaso Inn is the place to stay at. You may, if you like, now go to Hiroshima, the atom-bombed city. There are guides available to take you on a conducted sightseeing tour. You may also visit Nagoya, about 75 miles east of Kyoto with its ruins of an ancient castle and a golden dolphin surmounting the donjon. Here is Atsuta Jingu, the second largest shrine in Japan. The Noritake chinaware factory may be visited. The hotel Tokiwa here has good food. This city is noted for its porcelain and cloisonné wares. Gifu, about fifty minutes away by electric train, is famous for its cormorant fishing on the river Nagara. At Gifu you must stay at a Japanese Inn. The places mentioned above are open to tourists. You can take trips ranging from three to thirty days depending upon what you want to see and how much time you have.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Sumo, Japanese wrestling, Judo exhibits, baseball (tremendously popular and games are played at the stadium at Meiji Shrine grounds and the Korakuen grounds), horse racing, swimming meets, football, tennis matches and archery. There is an annual athletic meeting in November in the Stadium of the Outer Garden of the Meiji Jingo Shrine in Tokyo.
SPORTS . . . There is golf, tennis, yachting, swimming, skiing, hunting, skating in various parts of the country.
THEATRES . . . Japan has native theatrical art centuries old. The theatre in Japan is divided into Noh, Kabuki and puppet drama. The Noh, originally a religious dance in the fourteenth century, developed into a highly stylized dramatic form dealing with historical and Buddhist subjects. It is the classical drama of Japan. The actors wear masks and elaborate costumes as they perform one of the 242 Noh plays which survive. There are six schools of Noh actors in Japan. The Kabuki—unlike the Noh
which was for the aristocracy—was for the people. Kabuki plays are similar to European dramas except the dialogue is accompanied by musical instruments or an orchestra, and all the women’s roles are played by men. Kabuki plays are classics like the Noh. But the costumes and scenery have more glamour. The third form of the theatre is the puppet play with large and small puppets operated by three people. Puppet plays are put on to the accompaniment of the shamisen and the chanting of ballads. The Noh and Kabuki are presented in special theatres. The Kabuki daily and the Noh on regular schedule. In Tokyo you can see Kabuki at the Tokyo theatre. An all puppet theatre, the Bunrakuza, is at Osaka. In season the Cherry Dance presentations at the theatres are worth seeing. There is modern Japanese theatre to be seen, too. Revues, and light opera are popular and who could resist the Takarazuka Girls Troupe if they are playing?
TIME ... 17 hours ahead of United States Pacific Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Less than at home but not stingily.
TOURIST TAXES . . . None.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are tramways, street cars, motor buses, and an underground or subway which operates in the suburbs of Tokyo. Taxi cabs are readily obtainable as well as cars for hire. Rates are approximately the same as those in the United States.
WATER . . . Generally speaking, the water of Japan is perfectly safe to drink, but visitors are recommended to use their own judgment and act accordingly.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Porcelain ware, tortoise shell from Nagasaki, cloisonné from Nagoya, lacquer ware from Kyoto, silk, cultured pearls, embroidered kimonos and obis, pottery, china, ceramics, Japanese prints and wood cuts, wonderful silk damasks and a host of other souvenirs and things which only the Japanese can make.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Let the season of the year determine this. Tokyo is roughly like Washington, D. C. Japan as a whole is like the Middle West. In winter you’ll need furs, men will need overcoats. In spring, lighter weight clothes and in summer, cottons, light silks, sports clothes. Be sure to take a raincoat. You won’t need evening clothes unless you are being enter tained by very important diplomatic society.
It’s interesting to see how Japanese painting is done. This view is in the home of a socially prominent artist at Kyoto. Geisha girls watch too.
A typical farm girl in peasant costume is photographed here with tourists in the garden of the old temple of Ohara,Kyoto.
In the garden of a lacquer factory, a Japanese girl (left) shows tourists some excellent souvenir items.
[150]