NEW HORIZONS
NORWAY (Cont.)
Wild berries are plentiful and flowers everywhere in the gorgeous spring season.
FOOD . . . Breakfast is a huge meal with a huge cold buffet. Fish is served in great variety. Dinner is apt to be at 4:30. Tea and sandwiches at 9 p.m. Tourists don’t have to eat at these hours.
LANGUAGE . . . English is taught in the schools and practically everyone you will meet has a working knowledge of English.
XAUNDRY AND CLEANING FACILITIES . . . There are good cleaning and laundry services in Oslo. Inquire at your hotel.
LIQUOR . . . Beer is most popular. There’s a tax on hard liquor but you can get it.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Modern hospitals and excellent doctors are available. Ski centers have well equipped first aid centers with resident doctors. Inquire at your hotel if you need a doctor.
MOTION PICTURES . . . The latest American and English pictures are shown in Oslo with Norwegian sub-titles. Shows are not continuous, so be on time for performances as late-comers may not remain at the end of a program to catch the beginning. Good cinema houses include the Saga, Klingenberg, Eldorado and the Victoria. See local papers for time and features.
MUSIC . . . Opera and symphony of Oslo are outstanding features of the Oslo concert season. Visiting artists are also heard. Norwegian folk music is very beautiful and an important part of the life of the Norwegian people.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS ... The Chat Noir is the largest and gayest night club in town. Other good night spots include the Regnbuen, and the cafe at the Hotel Bristol. Larger hotels have music for dancing and some entertainment over the week-ends.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE...Solplassen 1 (Tel. 41 02 80).
RELIGION . . . Norway is a Lutheran country. Churches of other sects in Oslo include Catholic, Episcopal, Presbyterian, and a synagogue.
RESTAURANTS . . . Oslo has many charming outdoor cafes and terrace restaurants. Good food and colorful atmosphere can be found in restaurants along the harbor. The best of these are the Kongen and the Dronningen. First-class food and artistic clientele are to be found at the Continental. Big and popular is the Den Mauriske Hall with good food and good music. The Blom is a favorite with artists and writers. The chic place to dine in town is the Speilen. Here, evening dress is preferred on weekend nights. Telle adjoining the Regnbuen is very smart. Other good restaurants in Oslo include the Cecil, the Grand Kafe, the Humlen and the Tostrupgarden.
On the outskirts of the city Frognerseteren and Holmenkollen Turisthotel have views of the bay. The Royal Norwegian Yacht Club has wonderful food. You’ll need a card.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Steen and Strom is Norway’s biggest department store. Maja Jensen is good for tin ware, ceramics and toys; David Andersen and Tostrup for silver; Gres-vig for sporting goods; Heimen for wood carvings and native craft products; Hjordis Egelund for souvenirs and general whatnots.
SIGHTSEEING IN OSLO ... The nine-hundred-year-old city of Oslo is full of fascinating things to see. The town is surrounded by wooded hills and distant snow-capped peaks. You’ll want to see the changing of the guards at the Royal Palace, the beautiful buildings of the University of Oslo, the National Theatre with its statues by Bjornson and Ibsen, and the Nobel Institute where the prizes are awarded. Stroll through beautiful Karl Johans Gate Park. There are band concerts and outdoor cafes here. The medieval castle Akershus built by Christian the Fourth is a must. A trip up the Holmenkollen in back of the city offers a wonderful view of the city. Here is where the International Ski races are held. A visit to the harbor with its bustling market places will give you a good idea of native life. Just wandering around the medieval part of the city will be like going back over five hundred years in the life of the country. These are just a few of the marvelous things to do in the interesting city of Oslo.
Bergen ... is Norway’s second largest city, located in the
south of Norway. The town has a wonderfully harmonious collection of medieval, Renaissance and strikingly modern architecture. See the Mariakirken Church. Built in the twelfth century, it is the oldest building in Bergen. The Hanseatic Museum gives a wonderful idea of the culture of old Norway. There is a fine art gallery and ethnological collection at the Bergen University, another interesting sight. Other things to see include the harbor and market places, the home of Edvard Grieg, the great Norwegian composer, and the old Norwegian Stav churches. Good hotels in Bergen include the Bristol and the Norge. Single rooms begin at about $2.50. Side trips may be made to the beautiful fjords around Bergen.
trondheim . . . is the principal city in north central Norway. There is a fabulously lovely cathedral begun in the eleventh century and still being built today. Norway’s great Technical School is here. The River Nid runs through the town and can be crossed by four graceful bridges. Sailing, fishing and skiing are all wonderful near Trondheim. Cosy and cheerful ski lodges offer simple accommodations. The Astoria and the Bristol are the good hotels in the town itself.
lillehammer . . . The charming village of Lillehammer is the center of the greatest skiing in Norway. Champions from all over the world come here to ski. The slopes are wonderful. Good mountain lodge accommodations are available and Victoria is the best hotel in Lillehammer itself.
There are several circular motor coach tours out of Oslo which take from five to ten days. These tours take in all the points of interest.
Remember that Norway is an enormous country, distances are great and there is lots to see. But whatever itinerary you decide to follow, be sure to include the fjords.
the fjords . . . To go to Norway without seeing some of the great fjords is like going to Paris without seeing the Louvre. The fjords are in the western part of the country and are often deep as a mile and as high. Most famous are Hardangerfjord, Sognefjord, Romsdalfjord and Lyngenfjord. The most comfortable way to see the fjords is on one of the coastal steamers which run along the rugged West coast. It is also possible to go by car and take some of the local ferries. At Nordalsfjord for instance there is a ferry trip which lasts for several hours and you see some magnificent fjord scenery. The coastal steamers make stops which allow for half-day inland excursions. In the early summer there is perpetual sunlight so if you are touring the fjords at this time it is almost impossible to tear yourself away from the scenery to sleep.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Championship ski competitions are the greatest spectator attraction in Oslo and the entire country. Skating races also draw crowds.
SPORTS . . . Norwegians who can walk can ski. This is the national sport and Norway is one of the ski capitals of the world. Ski-touring is very popular and huts and lodges dot the routes of cross-country runs. Norway is full of all kinds of slopes and jumps, lifts, instructors and cheerful ski lodges. Renting your skis is wiser than bringing them. They are the best in the world and insured against damage. Tobogganing, skating and bob-sledding are also popular winter sports. The fishing in Norway is excellent. You fish for trout and pike in any of the streams or lakes. Salmon fishing is magnificent. You can lease your own river for about $600 a month or just go where the salmon fishing is. The equipment and boats are available at reasonable cost. Sailing and swimming rank high on the summer sports list. Norwegian alps are a mountain climber’s delight. Cyclists and hikers will find pleasant rolling countryside beneath the snow capped peaks. Winter ski lodges become hostels for the hikers and climbers in the summer months. The hunting is wonderful. Deer, elk and moose abound for the big-game hunter. A license is reasonable. Rabbit, fox, hare and game birds are abundant. All in all, Norway is a year ’round sportsman’s paradise.
THEATRES... The National Theatre stages classical drama, modern literary plays and light comedy. There is an annual Ibsen cycle. The New Theatre devotes itself to light plays, the Central, to light opera. Le Chat Noir is the oldest music hall.
TIME ... Six hours ahead of New York Standard Time.
[41]