NEW HORIZONS
ican already had established commercial service not only to South America but across the Pacific Ocean (1935).
What H. G. Wells called “time lag” was the reason, wasn’t it? The thinking of the people concerned was lagging behind the speed of the transportation which they were using every day\ Somewhat the same thing may be occurring now in our vacation thinking. Many Americans are taking advantage of the speed of the flying Clippers, are taking winter vacations instead of summer vacations—or are splitting their vacations to take part in winter, part in summer.
But the great mass of Americans, and our school system with it, are still tending to go along with the vacation thinking of a century ago!
Other out-of-date thinking
It used to be considered a “fact” that vacations were a sort of expense to employers. They were a luxury which workers didn’t need and which it would be more profitable therefore not to allow them.
Careful cost analysis has shown that this was a fallacy. The Medical Director says, “Mental as well as physical fatigue increases the effort needed to achieve a given objective. Such fatigue also decreases the caliber of the performance.” In other words the employer gets more work per hour out of the refreshed worker, for the same pay, than out of the tired worker. The principle applies whether the work is with the hands or with the brain.
So vacations, in most occupations, are no longer opposed.
Just to get a little perspective on this matter of vacations, it might be interesting to take a quick glance at what Europeans have found out. Their viewpoint is different, according to another leading authority in his report in the Journal of the American Medical Asso-
ciation in 1939:
“It is traditional with the European to take his vacation regularly and to consider it to be a very important constructive period of life. Whether he feels ill or not, he consults his physician about the site of his vacation. . . . Whereas the European vacation is medically directed and supervised, the American vacation is undirected.”
So there is the sum-total of the most up-to-date facts we can bring you. They apply just as much to war work as to any other kind of work. “Unvarying routine,” says a prominent psychologist who was Wartime Consultant to the Surgeon General of the U. S. Army, “can affect anyone’s mental efficiency.”
In an article in This Week magazine (April, 1949) this doctor really “laid it on the line.” He wrote:—
“Let me say frankly that mental ///-health is perhaps the greatest menace to the equilibrium of American life today.” And then he went on, in an article titled “Why You Need a Vacation,” to point out: “I have known men and women who took pride in having worked some vast number of years without a let-up. It always amazes me to hear them announce the fact as though their self-denial were some kind of achievement.
“Such persons aren't smart—they're only jeopardizing their jobs, their health and their home life."
So there you have it. You don’t have to feel guilty about needing a vacation in ordinary times. You don’t even have to feel unpatriotic about wanting a vacation in wartime. “Unvarying routine can affect anyone’s mental efficiency”—anyone's\
We wish you “bon voyage”! We know on the World’s Most Experienced Airline you will have “happy landings”! Call on us for any supplementary facts which you do not find in the pages which follow.
Tips for Your Traveling Convenience
1.	Before you leave the United States, it’s best to have visas (where required) for each country you think you might visit, because in some foreign countries it takes a long time to get visas for other countries.
2.	Some travelers realize a saving by exchanging some of their money into foreign currency before leaving the United States where one may frequently get a better rate of exchange, but be careful to note the total amount of foreign currencies that may be brought into each country.
3.	It’s handy to carry a few one-dollar bills with you so that it is not necessary to cash a traveler’s check or exchange a large bill into local currency in order to make small purchases in those countries where you plan only a short stop-over between planes.
4.	In some foreign countries, the toilet paper is of the same consistency as brown wrapping paper, so you may want to take a package or two of flat toilet tissue sheets which will pack better than a roll.
5.	Just as the water in one section of the United
States differs from that of another, the water of many foreign countries varies; and even though it may be safe to drink, i.e., sanitary, some people may contract diarrhea due to the change of water. This also applies to the ice in drinks. Consult your doctor as to what remedial medicine to take along. A good rule to follow is—when in doubt, drink bottled water.
6.	If you wish to use an electric razor abroad, be sure to carry a transformer plug which will reduce the 220-250 voltage (common in many foreign countries) to the 110-120 voltage used in the United States, and a set of plugs to fit various foreign electrical outlets.
7.	For re-entry to the United States you need a smallpox vaccination certificate (certified by a Public Health Officer) which indicates, with the reaction, a vaccination not less than fourteen days nor more than three years old. Many other countries such as Austria, France, Ireland, Italy, Argentina and the Dominican Republic also require this certificate for entry so it’s advisable to have it before you leave the United States.
[ü]