NEW HORIZONS
BRAZIL (Cont.)
CURRENCY • ■ • The monetary unit is the cruzeiro worth about five cents. You get best value in exchange at the cambios (money exchange shops).
CUSTOM REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED - - - You may bring in: liquor, cameras, cigarettes. You need passport, vaccination certificate, Brazilian visa, four passport photos.
DRUG STORES • - - Ultramar Drug Store, Rua Sete de Setembro 81 has an Anglo-American Section.
FAUNA • • • Diverse species found in temperate and torrid zones, including alligators, jaguars, mountain cats.
FLORA - • • Orchids-vitoria-regia (Amazon area). Bougan-villeas. One hundred thousand different species of plants and trees can be seen at the Botanical Gardens.
FOOD • • • Naturally the coffee is plentiful, for Brazil is the world’s largest producer of coffee. All the hotels serve international food if you don’t want to sample the native dishes. If you do, however, try feijoada, made of meat, black beans and rice, cooked separately and spiced with herbs. The Cariocas do well by fish of all sorts. Try Camaroes a la Grec (shrimps on a spit) at the Copa. Local beef dishes are superb. Try Churrasco, grilled filet of beef sprinkled with flour. The Brazilian Creole dishes are magnificent and are best at the Copa. Food is reasonable in Rio and you can find any type you want.
GAMBLING • • • The casinos in Rio were shut down a few years ago. But there is racing at the Jockey Club track Saturdays and Sundays with pari-mutuel betting.
LANGUAGE • • • Portuguese, but English is understood in tourist centers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES - - - La-
vandaria Americana (Manhattan cleaners) 46 Voluntaries da Patria. Delivery in two days. (Laundry only.)
LIQUOR • • • Excellent native wines, but best wines served with native dishes are fine white Portuguese. There is a Brazilian rum called cachaga made from sugar cane, that takes a little getting used to. It can only be bought by the bottle for 15 or 20 cents a quart. Scotch and other imported liquors are about what you’d pay for them at home. Brazilian beer is fine. Costs about 25 cents a quart.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • The Strangers Hospital, Rua Passagem 188, is staffed with English-speaking doctors and nurses.
MOTION PICTURES- • -There are many fine cinema houses. Fairly recent Hollywood movies are shown in the big ones.
MUSIC • • • The Teatro Municipal is the mecca of music lovers who from June to September hear world famous singers and conductors. Brazil has an important place in the musical world. Villa-Lobos, one of the best known contemporary composers of serious music is a Brazilian. The Brazilian folk songs and chants have been made famous in North America by such singers as Elsie Houston, Olga Coelho and others. There is a national symphony. There are fine concerts at the National School of Music. The Samba, is of course, Brazilian, as is the Samba music.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS - - - Night life is concentrated around the Av. Atlantica. The gambling casinos are closed and with their closing went the fabulous floor shows which were world famous. There is dancing at Atlantica, Urea and the Copacabana. The Midnight Room at the Copa is a popular late spot. The Night and Day Room at the Serrador is good. Casablanca at the foot of Sugar Loaf mountain is small and intimate. If you are adventurous and don’t care how rough the fun gets, hie yourself to the Lapa District to the Cabaret Royal Pigalle. Night clubbing in Rio is limited and expensive. There are cover charges ranging from $5 to $7 per person.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE - - - Tickets and information for Pan American or Panair do Brasil at Av. Graca Aranha 226 (Tel. 42-8201 and 22-7761).
RELIGION • • • Union Church, Protestant non-denomina-tional, Rua Paula Freitas 99; English Catholic Church, Rua Marques de Abrantes; Jewish Synagogue, Rua Tenente Possolo; Christ Church (Anglican), Rua Real Grandeza; First Church of Christ Scientist, Av. Churchill.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS • • • Alba Mar serves wonderful sea food Brazilian style. Casa Heim, Rua Assembleia noted
for Brazilian dishes. Churrascaría Gaucha for barbecued steak. The hotels serve the best food in Rio. The Copacabana Palace is tops in all Brazil for food. The Gloria Hotel restaurant is famous for its luncheon buffet. For homesick Americans there is the Sorveteria Americana where you can get malteds and banana splits. Very reasonable and good is the Colombo on Rua Gon-galves Dias. The Jockey Club Brasileiro is a social must for luncheons and serves all sorts of native dishes. Good mixed drinks here. Tea rooms are an important part of life in Rio. They draw the cream of Brazilian society and men go, too. A good one is Confeitaria Colombo, Rua Gongalves Dias. All the top hotels have good bars. The Wonder Bar is a French Cafe overlooking the beach. The Lido, the Alcazar, the Carlton are fine for a quickie.
SHOPS AND STORES - - - Zitrin, Rua Buenos Aires 110 for aquamarines and other gems; Casa Anglo-Americana, Rua da Assembleia 73, antiques and Portuguese silver; Town Central Market Imperial, Rua Goncalves Dias 56 for lingerie and wonderful hand-made blouses; Henrique Liberal & Cia. excellent antiques and wood carvings; Arte Antiga, Rua Copacabana, Brazilian curios, old silver, Chinese porcelain; Casa Sloper, Rua Uruguaiana, is the best department store in the city. For tourist curios go to Casa Hugo, Rua Buenos Aires; Perfumarías Car-neiro, Ouvidor 103 is best for French perfumes. Don’t be tempted by street peddlers of perfumes. It’s always a gyp.
SIGHTSEEING. - Rio is full of things to see. You can scarcely miss the magnificent Copacabana Beach section with its serpentine mosaic walk famed the world over. Neither can you miss Sugar Loaf Mountain or Corcovado (Hunchback Mountain) which tower over the city. Sugar Loaf is a huge granite cone at the entrance of the bay. Take a cable car to Sugar Loaf and a funicular to Corcovado. The summit of Corcovado is crowned by the famed figure of Christ the Redeemer. The views from these two spots are fabulous. Visit the Gavea district by car; it affords some of the most beautiful scenery anywhere. This is where the race track is, too.
Among the many churches be sure to see the Church of Nossa Senhora da Gloria do Outeiro with its Bible scenes in blue tile. The Sao Bento Monastery is interesting but only men are allowed in the cloisters. The Guanabara Palace, the residence of the President (now the municipality), is at Rua Pinheiro Machado, was once the residence of Princess Izabel. The Sao Joaquim Palace, Praga da Gloria, is the official residence of the Archbishop.
The largest park in Rio is the Quinta da Boa Vista, containing the National Museum, once the residence of two Emperors; zoological gardens, a small tropical fish aquarium. Botanical Gardens are situated near Lake Rodrigo de Freitas and the Jockey Club. Here there is a great avenue of palms 2,200 feet long. Tijuca Forest is fine for a day’s excursion. It is a tropical forest with fine roads winding through beautiful mountains and woods.
A trip to Paquetá, an island at the far end of the bay, is a delight. You may hike, cycle or hire a carriage for a drive from one end of the island to the other. This is a ferry trip from Praga 15 de Novembro. A shorter ferry ride is to Niteroi, a picturesque town across the bay which is the residential section for the English colony.
There are pleasant beaches at Icarai and Imbui for a quiet day’s jaunt. Petropolis is the leading summer resort in Brazil. It is about an hour’s ride from the capital and boasts one of the finest resort hotels in the world, the Hotel Quitandinha, decorated by Dorothy Draper. It is set down in the middle of fantastic tropical scenery, orchid-draped trees on the edge of a lake. The hotel is the last word in modernity and swank. There are 20-foot bird cages, indoor Roman pools, a theatre, a marble entrance hall and almost anything else you can imagine. English is just one of the languages spoken. The food is wonderful and the rates not exorbitant. Here you can swim, ride, boat, play tennis or dance. The President has a suite there. Nearby is the royal palace built by the last Emperor of Brazil, Dom Pedro II. The palace is now the Imperial Museum and you may see the royal jewels Thursdays and Saturdays.
Another popular resort nearby is Terezopolis, which is about
[114]