NEW HORIZONS
NORWAY (Cont.)
TIPPING . . . Hotels add 15 per cent service charge to your bill. Don’t tip more except for special services. Follow the 10 to 15 per cent rule in your other tipping. The krone is worth about 15 cents in our currency.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Taxis and bus service are available in Oslo. Good train service is maintained to other parts of the country, especially the big ski centers.
WATER... Excellent.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Norwegian enamelware and silver are your best buys. Native craft products are beautiful. They include textiles, glassware, embroideries, brassware and leather goods. Furs are marvelous and Norwegian skis are the finest in the
world. Prices are a good deal lower than they are at home, but our duty is high.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Warm heavy clothing is a must for Norway in the winter. The Norwegian concept of heating is for much cooler homes than our own, so bring dressy wool clothes for evenings. Black suits and dresses are formal enough for Oslo night life. Business and sports suits for men. Sweaters and raincoats for both sexes. Medium-weight clothes for summer wear will be most suitable. Leave light-weight cottons and silks at home. Warm clothes are needed for sailing, hiking and climbing. Every skier has his own favorite outfit, but be sure it’s good and warm. Norwegian winds are cold.
There’s plenty of interesting activity to watch in Oslo Harbor here with its bustling market places. You’ll get a good idea of native life.
The Square in Trondheim, the principal city in Central Norway 345 miles north of Oslo. In the foreground is a statue of the Viking King, Olav Tryggvason.
The Town Hall, Oslo is representative of the trim lines of Norway’s recent architecture.
Dovregubben’s Hall is an interesting stopover named after the giant mentioned in Ibsen’s Peer Gynt and in old Norwegian sagas; near Dombas, about 215 miles north of Oslo.
Norwegian fjord fisherman. Fishing and whaling is an important industry in Norway of course, and for tourist-fishermen the opportunities are unlimited.
The fjord country in Western Norway offers magnificent scenery from your excursion steamer. This scene is near Bergen, about 300 miles northwest of Oslo.
[42]