ITALY
WEATHER IN ROME—Lat N41°54'—Alt. 95'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
Í Low	38°	40°	44°	49°	54°	61°	66°	65°	61°	54°	46°	40 ‘
Temp. < High	52°	55°	59°	66°	73°	81°	87°	86°	80°	70°	60°	53'
/ Average	44°	48°	52°	58°	64°	71°	77°	76°	71°	62°	53°	471
Days of Rainfall	11	10	11	12	9	6	2	3	6	12	12	12
LOCATION . . . Italy occupies the familiar boot-shaped peninsula extending from the Alps into the Mediterranean Sea.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Italy has never been so gay, so full of visitors, so thickly coated with tourist centers with an air and atmosphere of prosperity. You can play in Rome or Florence or Capri, or relax in Sicily and in some of the charming little towns along the Italian Riviera. The tourist is welcome everywhere. The wonders of Rome are well known. The history of the modern world has roots here, and you will have missed something if you don’t wander around the Colosseum, or seethe Sistine Chapel. Rome is noisy, Latin and very smart these days.
POPULATION ... 45,576,000, about four million more than France.
SIZE . . . 760 miles long and 100 to 150 miles wide, Italy’s area is 119,800 square miles, roughly the size of New Mexico.
CAPITAL ... Rome, estimated population 1,650,000, about 200,000 smaller than Detroit.
GOVERNMENT... Italy is a republic in which all major political parties participate.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper direct to Rome, about 17 hours (elapsed time) from New York or Boston. By ship to Naples, 10 to 14 days.
ROME
ACCOMMODATIONS.. . There are many fine hotels in Rome. The Grand, the Excelsior and the Hassler are about tops. The Flora and the Ambassador are also excellent. Other fine hotels include the Mediterraneo, Majestic, Savoy, Regina, Quirinale, Eliseo and many others. Rates in first-class hotels run about SI2 including service charge and tax. Almost all now furnish soap. If you don’t bring soap, most popular American brands can be bought locally.
ARTS. . . Rome is the art lover’s paradise. Museum after museum is filled with famous paintings and sculptures. Almost every famous bit of art you have ever heard of is in Rome. Here is just a brief outline of where to go. The Vatican Museum, of course; the Borghese Gallery with its paintings by Titian, Raphael, Tintoretto and others; The Capitoline Museum for the famous Greek Sculptures “The Dying Gladiator”, Praxiteles and others. Visit the Museum delleTerme; the Gallery of Modern Art; the Conservatory, the Etruscan Museum. Many of the Cathedrals and churches contain magnificent murals and ceiling paintings and sculptures. In the Sistine Chapel of the Vatican you will see Michelangelo’s magnificent painting of the Creation. His statue of Moses is found in the Church of San Pietro on the Via Cavour.
BANKS. . . American Express, 38 Piazza di Spagna; Thos. Cook, 9-11 Via Veneto; banks and most hotel cashiers cash travelers’ checks at the official rate minus bank charges, giving you 620 lire to the dollar.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS. . . There are hundreds of local religious festivals during the year throughout Italy.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO. . . American cigarettes cost about 56 cents per pack. Take as many in as you are allowed. Italian tobacco is poor.
CLIMATE.. . Rome is pleasant the year ’round. But there is a rainy season during the winter months. May to October is usually filled with sunny, warm days which by mid-summer turn quite hot, indeed. Climate in the rest of Italy varies from the subtropical to freezing. So it depends on where you go and at what
time of the year.
CLUBS. . . The “Open Gate” Club, especially set up for travelers visiting Rome, has a bar, restaurant and night club with an excellent orchestra. It also has English-speaking movies from Hollywood. Also such other facilities as club rooms, card rooms, etc.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS. . . Dinner hour is late and so are opera and theatre performances. The chaperone is still in good standing. When visiting churches, men wear coats and women should have a head covering. It is wise to wear stockings and dresses with sleeves. Never go to a church in slacks. For an audience with the Pope, women must wear black, long-sleeved dresses or a suit, a hat or veil. Men should wear dark suits. If you are not Catholic, you need not genuflect or kiss the Pope’s ring, behavior which is mandatory for Catholics. Business closes down at 1:00 p. m., reopens about 4:00. Offices are open until 7:30.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There is good trans-Atlantic phone service. Telegrams and cables are sent at the Post Office. It saves time to let your concierge or porter send them for you.
CURRENCY... The monetary unit of Italy is the lira worth about 625 to the dollar. For exchange, consult airways officials or your concierge and avoid sidewalk money changers.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS NEEDED.. . You’ll need a passport, no visa. Vaccination certificate for re-entry to the United States. You may bring unlimited dollars, and unlimited lire in 1,000 lire notes. About 500 cigarettes, or 500 grams tobacco, two open bottles of liquor. No restriction on food, or liquor when leaving. But you may take out no more than 30,000 lire (1,000 lire notes only).
DRUG STORES. . . There are no American-type drug stores in Italy. Here they are called pharmacies and sell medicines, toilet articles and most of the top grade patent medicines.
FOOD... Spaghetti, of course, is the national staple. In fact, pasta of all sorts in an amazing variety of sizes and shapes. Despite everything you’ve heard, you won’t find much garlic in
[24]