
/ ****** Keppel Harbour 3^'	^ -s
J \. \	‘
—7 vj

*Ccf1
—3
SINGAPORE

WEATHER IN SINGAPORE—Lat. N01°17'—Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low
Temp. < High
/ Average 80 Days of Rainfall 16
73°	73°	74°	75°	75°	75°	75°	75°	75°	74°	74°	73°
86°	88°	89°	89°	89°	88°	88°	88°	88°	88°	87°	86°
80°	81°	81°	82°	82°	82°	82°	82°	82°	81°	81°	80°
16	11	14	15	14	14	13	14	13	16	18	19
LOCATION . . . Singapore is an island about three-quarters of a mile off the south end of the Malay Peninsula in Southeast Asia, 77 miles north of the equator. The City of Singapore is about 900 air miles south of Bangkok.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This British city has always been a symbol of the color and romance to be found in the East. Its culture is native, but all the overtones are British, and none of its flavor was lost in the war. The famed Raffles Hotel is here and so are the Singapore Slings. The hotels are comfortable and there is plenty to do that’s gay. It’s a wonderful shopping center, too. The shops and bazaars are filled with fascinating things.
POPULATION ... Approximately 1,100,000, of which about 80 per cent is Chinese.
SIZE ... 27 miles long and 14 miles wide, the island is about three times the area of our District of Columbia.
CAPITAL... Singapore, with a population of about 850,000, slightly smaller than St. Louis.
GOVERNMENT . . . Since 1946 a British Crown Colony which, in addition to Singapore Island includes Christmas Island and The Cocos Islands.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, Singapore is about 7 hours flying time non-stop from Manila. From San Francisco, the total elapsed time is 70 hours, which includes a full day stopover in Manila and several hours in Honolulu. By ship, the trip requires about 30 days.
SINGAPORE
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are some very good hotels in Singapore. The four top ones are the Raffles, the Hotel d'Europe and the Adelphi which are right in the city, and the Seaview which is five miles out and is located on the sea. They are about $11 to $14, American plan double, and very crowded. It is sometimes necessary to share a room.
ARTS . . • The Malay Arts and Crafts Centre has a collection of Malay silverwork, and sarongs; the Raffles Museum has wonderful exhibits of the history, costumes and handicrafts of the people of South Eastern Asia and of its animal and bird life. While there is no art museum, weekly art exhibits are held in The Hall, which is provided by the British Council. Here they have works by native and European artists on exhibition.
BANKS • • • Among the many banks here are the American Express; National City Bank of New York; The Chartered Bank of India; Bank of China; the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, to name just a few.
CIGARETTES . . . English cigarettes (Players) are about 40 cents a pack. Some United States brands at 25 cents a pack.
CLIMATE . . . Singapore has a fairly even temperature. It is very warm, and the humidity is very high. But the evenings are usually cool. There is no marked dry or wet season. May to October is the best time to visit.
CLUBS • • • The Tanglin Club, the Singapore Golf Club, the Swimming Club, the Yachting Club, the American Club and the Flying Clubs. Cards can be arranged for some of these by members.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . The Malay is a stickler for etiquette. He serves and handles food only with his right hand. (Unless of course eating with a knife and fork). He is a modest person, too. In greeting a Malay, do not shake hands or slap him on the shoulder. Aristocratic Malays never laugh and seldom even smile because they do not feel it is in good taste to show their emotions.
COMMUNICATIONS • • • Telephone service in the Colony and Federation. Long distance to Hong Kong. Excellent telegraph and wire services.
CURRENCY . . . The Malay dollar is the monetary unit. It is worth about 32.75 cents in United States currency.
CUSTOMS REGULATION AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Passport and visa. Don’t try to take your dog with you. Permission is given only in exceptional cases and the animal is subject upon arrival to six months quarentine. There is a duty on all liquor brought in.
DRUG STORES . . . Chemists shops, with most United States toilet articles available.
FLORA AND FAUNA . . . There are very few wild animals on Singapore Island itself, monkeys may be seen in the parks and gardens. Orchids and gladiolus grow profusely in Singapore and usually bloom three or four times a year.
FOOD ... You can get all sorts of Continental food here, but it is very expensive. Of course, there are many native dishes such as “Mah Mee,” a Chinese dish, and lots of spicy Malay or Indian curries.
GAMBLING ... The Singapore Turf Club has periodical meetings on the average of three times a year and guests’ cards can be obtained to attend the races. There are no gambling casinos as such in this part of the world.
LANGUAGE . . . The language of the country is Malay and it is spoken by the majority of other races such as Chinese and Indians all over this part of the world. While Chinese and Hindustani are spoken, a person who has only a knowledge of the English language can get along quite satisfactorily in Singapore.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING ... In all hotels a wash amah is available and laundry service is better than average. Dry cleaning is a great problem in this country as it is a question at all times as to whether or not they wash articles that are supposed to be dry cleaned. Dry cleaning is quite expensive and takes from one to three days for the fastest service.
LIQUOR •. • Liquor is plentiful with a general supply of all popular brands of Scotch whiskey.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Good. The King Edward VII College of Medicine (now combined with Raffles University) is excellent. But there is a shortage of doctors and hospital staffs.
[153]