NEW HORIZONS
GRENADA (Cont.)
RESTAURANTS. • • Depend on the hotels for food here. It is good but not fancy West Indian cooking.
SHOPS AND STORES.. .Principal stores are: Everybody’s; The Supply Stores; T. R. Evans for cottons, straw hats, etc.; T. E. Noble Smith & Co.; The Granby Stores. The Home Industries Association has curios and native crafts.
SIGHTSEEING • • • Drive along the wharf past tne Botanic Gardens returning via Richmond Hill. Drive through the Sendall Tunnell which connects the quay side of St. George’s with the part of the town that lies on the sea. A high ridge of land separates the two sections. You must take a trip to Grand Etang, a volcanic lake about 1700 feet above sea level. Here is a rest house which is run as a restaurant, a Government Sanatorium and one of the loveliest views you have ever seen. Lake Antoine and Lake Levera are in the North of the island, reached through the town of Sauteurs. Richmond Hill is an old French Arsenal now used as a prison. A good idea of the island may be had from the drive which goes through Grand Roy, Concord, Gouyave, Victoria, Sauteurs, Grenville and St. Davids and back to St. George’s. This takes about three hours. Visit Grand Anse with its two miles of brilliant white sand fringed with coconut palms. A wonder spot to swim or dream.
SPECTATOR SPORTS • • • There is cricket, of course, and association football. There are also tennis matches played
between Grenada and other West Indian Island teams.
SPORTS • • . Tennis may be played at Richmond Hill Club; Public Officer’s Club; Dunfermline Tennis Club. The Grenada Golf Club admits visitors to the nine-hole course. Fishing is very fine. Trolling and drop-line fishing are favorite methods. There are small boats for hire. Mullet, brochet and sard may be found in the rivers. There is good deep-sea fishing, too. Sea bathing is wonderful, particularly at Grand Anse. There is another good beach at Fontenoy. On the East coast of the island there is surf bathing at Levera Beach. And Green Island has a splendid beach, too as well as a country-type golf course.
THEATRES • . . Cinema only. See motion pictures.
TIME. . . One hour ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING • • • About ten to fifteen per cent.
TRANSPORTATION • .. There are numerous cars for hire.
WATER ■ • • Water in the hotels is safe to drink.
WHAT TO BUY • • • Spices, for this is the spice island; native carvings and curios. British cottons; native straw hats and baskets.
WHAT TO WEAR • • • Light weight summer cottons, slacks; go easy on shorts. Beach clothes. Men need light weight cotton or linen suits, shorts, beach wear and a raincoat. Tropical evening wear is optional.
Guests of the Santa Maria Hotel enjoy tea on veranda which overlooks picturesque St. George’s and the sheltering mountains behind.
Old fishing boat silhouetted against sunset in Careenage Bay near St. George’s.
Bathers pause to chat on beach of Morne Rouge Beach Club near St. George’s. The Beach Club affords excellent beach, dining and dancing.
Tourists on hillside look out over Careenage Bay with old fishing boats and cargo schooners lying at anchor in its calm waters. In background lies St. George’s with its picturesque buildings.




[95]