NEW HORIZONS
ITALY (Cont.)
typical Italian food. There are innumerable risotto or rice dishes mixed with peppers, chicken, meat, fish, onions and spices. Pizza, of course, is famous. This is a baked cheese and tomato open-faced pie. Antipasto, the Italian hors d’oeuvres, is much the same in Rome as at home. Veal is a favorite meat and scallopine is familiar to everyone. The fruits are excellent. Beef is generally good. Polenta, a favorite in northern Italy, is worth trying. This is a porridgey dish of corn flour served most in native restaurants in the country. The northern Italians cook in butter. In the South they prefer oil. Italian cooking is rich, saucy and spicy and infinitely varied. Cafe Espresso is the bitter strong coffee especially brewed in espresso machines or Rube Goldberg contraptions which use forced compressed steam to make the coffee.
GAMBLING • • • There are Casinos at Venice, San Remo, pari-mutuel betting at horse racing, trotting and dog tracks. Weekly government-run lotteries too.
LANGUAGE ... You won’t need to know Italian to get around easily in Rome or in the other principal tourist centers.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING • • • Laundry is wonderful and fast. Italian laundresses do careful pressing on lingerie and shirts. It is advisable to select your dry cleaner carefully.
LIQUOR . Italian wines are famous and good. Best known are Chianti, Frascati and Soave. There are many brands of each kind. Gin and brandy are favorite hard liquors. But one must acquire a taste for Italian brandy. Best are Buton Vecchia Romagna and Sarti. Strega is a native cordial which has quite a bite. You can get excellent Martinis in Rome. American whiskey and Scotch are available at New York prices.
MEDICAL FACILITIES • • • There are many English-speaking doctors and good hospitals. Rome has an International Hospital with American trained staff.
MOTION PICTURES • • • Most are in Italian but the Fia-metta and the Arcobaleno show exclusively English or French spoken films. See clubs.
MUSIC • • • There are concerts everywhere all the time. The opera is a gala occasion and you hear wonderful music and see Romans at their dressiest. Italy is the home of Grand Opera and it is given its due in every town and village. Everyone sings in Italy, the land of Verdi, Puccini, Leoncavallo, Pinza and Toscanini. You’ll hear music everywhere you go. There is open air opera during July and August in the Baths of Caracalla and frequent concerts in the Basilica di Massenzio.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS • During the winter and until the beginning of June the Open Gate has an excellent night club. Others are at the Excelsior Hotel and the Ambassador. There always is of course the Jicky Club. All night spots close in the summer and are supplanted by the outdoor night clubs. The best are the Belvedere delle Rose a few miles from Rome on a hill overlooking the City, and the Casina delle Rose.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE • • • 46 Via Bissolati (Tel. 470415, 470416).
RELIGION • • • Rome, needless to say, is Catholic and is filled with magnificent churches. Others are The American Church (Episcopal) on Via Nazionale and The English Church on Via Babuino and other Protestant churches and synagogues.
RESTAURANTS • • • No two, much less Romans, will agree on the same restaurants. However one should try Passetto's, the Biblioteca del Valle and Capriccio's with its lovely terrace and outdoor cocktail bar. Dine at the Hosteria dell'Orso. It is reputed to have been the Hotel where Dante stayed in the 13 th Century. The food is epicurean. Do not miss Alfredo's, at the tomb of Augustus. There are countless small little restaurants hidden away that are worthwhile exploring. In the summer for outdoor dining and dancing, try the Belvedere delle Rose, Faro and the Casina delle Rose. Outdoor cafes are all over, since the Roman drinks innumerable small cups of Espresso, very strong black coffee, a day. Try Doney's and Rosati's on Via Veneto, for coffee, a soda or cocktails, and watch the people stream by. Hotel dining rooms are usually not as good or interesting as restaurants.
SHOPS AND STORES • • - The shopping center is formed by Via Condotti, Rome’s Bond Street, Via Frattina and Via Sistina. Antinori on Via Francesco Crispi has excellent bags and leather goods. Pessione on Via Bissolati has wonderful ties for
men and is an excellent tailor. Cucci is well known too. D’Auria in Via Due Macelli and Manco in Piazza di Spagna have fine gloves. Stores close at 1:00 p.m., reopen at 4:00 until 7:30 p.m.
SIGHTSEEING • • • Volumes have been written about what to see in Rome, so consider this as a check list. There are several guided tours to the museums and art galleries and other points of historical interest. If you prefer to do it on your own, see: The Borghese Gallery, the Capitoline Museum, the Gallery of Modern Art, of course the Vatican Museum (see Vatican City paragraph), Hadrian’s Tomb, a short walk along the River Tiber; you don’t need to be reminded of St. Peter’s, The Colosseum, the Forums; take a ride out the Old Appian Way, see the Catacombs, the Cappuccini Chapel; gaze upward at the Palazzo Venezia where Mussolini held forth on the balcony; the three Basilicas: St. Mary Major, St. John Lateran and St. Paul’s-Outside-the-Walls. See the Holy Bambino in the Church of Ara Coeli. Look at the Quirinal Palace, former home of the popes; the Holy Stairway (Scala Santa), the graves of Keats and Shelley, the Pantheon, relic of the Roman Empire, built in 27 b.c., the Circus Maximus where the first chariot races were run; the Roman Capitol; the statue of Moses by Michelangelo in the Church of San Pietro on the Via Cavour. See the famous Roman Baths of Caracalla; the Spanish Steps at the old church of the Holy Trinity of the Hills which lead to the Piazza di Spagna; the ancient bridge over the Tiber; and you can’t miss seeing the enormous white and gold monument to Victor Emmanuel II. You can take it from here and spend days and weeks and not see it all.
Vatican city is a state within a state ruled by the Pope. Nineteen-fifty was Holy Year and thousands of pilgrims from all over the world thronged to Italy for the occasion. This year will undoubtedly bring devout throngs also. The Vatican has its own railway station, power lines, radio station and printing plant. Here stands St. Peter’s, largest church in Christendom. The treasures, the works of art are innumerable and breathtaking. Over the entrance is the famed Giotto mosaic. Inside the size will awe you. The nave is 151 feet high. The Treasury of St. Peter’s contains the Cross of the Emperor Justinius, Charlemagne’s robes, jewels and other treasures. The vaulted dome is by Michelangelo, the tombs of the Popes by Bernini and Canova. Take the elevator and climb 700 steps to the ball at the peak of the Dome and survey all of Rome. The Vatican itself is next, the residence of the Pope. The famous bronze doors are guarded by the equally famous brilliantly uniformed Swiss guards. The Vatican Museum may be visited at certain hours. But most beautiful of all is the Sistine Chapel with Michelangelo’s great masterpieces. See the rooms with the Raphael frescoes. Visit the rooms filled with magnificent painting, statuary, robes and tapestries. You need more than one visit to savor it all. Properly accredited visitors may attend group audiences with the Pope by calling the North American College (Tel. 62256).
side trips... 155 miles south of Rome is Cassino, an American battlefield and 37 miles south is the beach of Anzio. North of Rome you come to Assisi, the birthplace of St. Francis and the Basilica di San Francesco which honors him. There are excellent guided tours by CIAT in tourist buses which swing on circle itineraries. These buses have sliding roofs, radios and public address systems, hostesses who speak English, bars, desks, reading lights. The circle takes in Milan, Genoa, Florence, Rome, Naples, Cassino, Perugia, Bologna, Verona and Venice. And you can start anywhere you like on the circumference for as far as you like. See the Etruscan Gate in Perugia, the National Picture Gallery in Siena.
Florence . . . This city—“the cradle of the Renaissance” (146 miles north of Rome), is one of the most visited in Italy. Stay at the Excelsior or the Grand. Dine at the Baglioni Roof. Oliviero's, Giovacchino's, and Paoli's. Visit the Palazzo Vecchio, the Loggia dei Lanzi, under which is Cellini’s Perseus. See the Cathedral or “Duomo” of colored marble, housing Michelangelo’s last statue. Of course, you’ll see the Campanile tower; the great art galleries containing astonishing examples of Renaissance painting and sculpture; the Palazzo Uffizi and the Palazzo Pitti. Here you will see Flemish, Spanish and German masterpieces as well as Italian. Visit the Church of Santa Croce with the