NEW HORIZONS
BRAZIL (Coni.)
Luxurious hotels and colorful serpentine mosaic sidewalks frame the white sand and turquoise water of Rio de Janeiro’s famous Copacabana Beach.
At Petropolis, only 27 miles from Rio, is the fabulous Hotel Quitandinha, location of important diplomatic conferences as well as fine living for vacationists.
three hours from Rio. The best hotel there is the Hotel Residencia.
South of Rio is Sao Paulo, the great industrial city of Brazil. There is a Jockey Club, good hotels (the Espionada, the Excelsior) —the Lord, Hotel Sao Paulo and the famous Snake Institute Butantan is a mere six miles away.
Further south is Santos, the world’s largest coffee port. This is a resort center of beaches and excursions to nearby mountains. The Park Beach and the Atlántico are good hotels. See the orchidarium at Guaruja across the bay. The drive or cog rail trip from Sao Paulo to Santos is exciting and interesting.
Iguassú Falls on the Argentine border are one of the sights of the world. Larger than Niagara or Victoria Falls, they are two and a half miles wide. Eighty miles away are the falls of Sete Quedas. You may make arrangements to stay at both places through the Touring Club of Brazil. (See Argentina.)
Belém, the capital city of the State of Pará at the mouth of the Amazon, way north of Rio, is the jumping-off place for a trip through the Amazon jungle. It has a fine hotel, the Hotel Grande; Mme. Gare's French Pension is delightful, too. If you go to Belem you will undoubtedly go to Salvador too (formerly Bahia) the royal capital port and the fourth largest city in Brazil. Here the Hotel Palace is the best, the market, the native costumes, the colonial buildings, its rainbow tinted houses make it well worth a visit. Three roads wind from the quays to the upper city. But you may ride in a giant elevator or cable car if you like.
The “Williamsburg” of Brazil is Ouro Preto, preserved as a national monument. Houses of hand-made tile, carved doorways, filagree balconies, patios and ornate churches make it utterly fascinating.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse races at the Jockey Club Saturdays and Sundays. The races are important in the social life of Rio. The Grande Premio Brasil race in August and the Getulio Vargas Race on November draw everyone who is anyone. World soccer series at Municipal Stadium. Polo matches at Gavea. Boxing matches at Municipal Stadium. International tennis matches.
SPORTS . . . Golf at Gavea Country and Golf Club in the midst of orchid bearing trees. Terrific scenery, card necessary; Itanhangá Golf Club at Lake Jacaré is another scenic marvel. Good course, card necessary; The Yacht Club of Rio on Avenida Pasteur is the best in town. They like Americans, too. This club is host to the Montevideo-Rio annual Yacht Ocean Race. Nice restaurant, good drinks. Card necessary.
There is fine salt and freshwater fishing around Rio. You may surf cast or hire a boat and go deep-sea fishing. In the highland lakes there are plenty of fish to be caught. Hunting is good in the highlands—boar, duck, water hen, even alligator.
The Country Club de Rio has a swimming pool and tennis court. Card needed.
If you want to climb mountains you can do it right in Rio.
There are good horses for hire at local stables. And there is a
game called Peteca, a badminton without net or rackets, that can keep you amused and very active. It is played at the beaches. Swimming, of course, is a national sport.
THEATRES . . . There are several theatres in Rio. And during their winter you see foreign companies as well as local ones. Most of the plays are, of course, in Portuguese, but even if you don’t understand it you’ll enjoy the experience. Times of performances 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., except Mondays.
TIME ... Two hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... A service charge of 10 per cent is added to your hotel bills. It is usual to tip five per cent in addition. When taking a cab, make the price before you start oif, then tip about ten per cent. Porters should be handled the same way. Set the price, then add ten per cent.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Taxis cruise the city. All have red license plates. You can phone the nearest taxi stand for a cab. There are community taxis (similar to our wartime auto pools) called lotoQao which carry from five to twelve passengers and charge them about 25 cents each. Some of these follow regular routes which are marked on cards on their windshields.
Buses and street cars operate along the beach and throughout the city. During rush hours they are very crowded.
WATER ... It is advisable to drink only bottled water. Agua Lindoya is non-carbonated. Agua magneziana is mildly carbonated and Agua Caxambu is highly carbonated. All are good.
WHAT TO BUY . . . The best buys in Brazil are the precious and semi-precious stones. Topazes, amethysts and aquamarines should be brought home unset as the duty is lower. Alligator bags and other leather goods are cheaper here than at home. French perfume is cheap but do not patronize street peddlers or you will get gypped. Wood carvings, antique silver, hand-made lingerie and blouses are all good buys here. You can find wonderful baroque angels carved in wood if you search for them.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Women will want light weight spring or summer clothes. Plenty of beach things and a beach robe. A great deal of black is worn in Rio, especially evenings, so some good little black dresses will come in handy. Hats and jewels are worn after five. Fur jackets and stoles are seen in the evening. A light weight woolen suit is always nice to have along. Slacks and a topcoat are essential. Evening and dinner clothes for the season. Men will want linen suits, light weight wool suits, beach wear. Dinner clothes, if you are there during the Brazilian season, June to September. During their summer men may wear white suits, white shirt and black tie for informal evening affairs. Topcoats are necessary, June through September. A lightweight felt hat is worn the year round. Straws are not popular. Highly recommended are seersucker suits for men during the summer.