NEW HORIZONS
HONG KONG (Cont.)
hambra, Liberty, Majestic, Broadway ... all show American and British films.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . The Gripps (Hong Kong Hotel), Luna Park, The Ritz, Laichikok ... all with excellent Filipino dance orchestras. Don’t expect a floor show.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE . . . Hong Kong Hotel (Tel. 31830) and Peninsula Hotel in Kowloon (Tel. 57675—57585).
RELIGION . . . Church of England and Roman Catholic Churches. Most American Protestant missions represented . . . Jewish synagogue.
RESTAURANTS . . . Some of the most popular places are, the Parisian Grill, which has French and Russian food; The Dairy Farm, for ice cream sodas, the Gloucester, for tea, Kam Ling restaurant; Golden City restaurant; Golden Dragon; Cafe de Chine. Restaurants where you can get good continental food are the Hong Kong Hotel Grill, Gloucester Grill, Peninsula Cafeteria and the Repulse Bay Grill.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Bargaining is a must wherever you shop, whether in department stores or small corner shops, catering to tourist trade. Chinese and Indian merchants enjoy it much more when you do. You will find linens and embroidered articles on On Lan Street; carved camphorwood boxes, ivories on Queen’s Road, East; silks, smoking jackets, lingeries, carved rosewood heads on Wyndham Street. You can get wonderful bargains in British woolens from the following importers: John D. Hutchison & Co., Ltd.; Phlox Ltd.; Whiteways Ltd.; and Mackintosh’s, all in Hong Kong.
SIGHTSEEING ... A visit to Chinatown in Hong Kong is a must. Here are the “ladder streets,” narrow lanes with steep flights of stairs. There are typically Chinese markets. On Cotton Street you can get bargains in woolen, cotton goods, real and artificial silk. There are curio dealers in this district, tailors, grocers and restaurants. There are open-air book shops where you see Chinese ranging from small tots looking at picture books to adults poring over books of learning. You should try to visit the Tiger Balm Garden and take a drive through the beautiful residential district. The Water Works in Hong Kong are well worth seeing. The Government started the construction of the water works in 1851, the first in the colony. Hong Kong has three very popular and smart bathing beaches. The Lido which has a beautiful Beach Club. Repulse Bay can be reached from Hong Kong in twenty minutes by car. The Repulse Bay Hotel here offers every convenience to the visitor. Another beach resort is Shek-O in the old village of Dragon’s Back peninsula. The fishing village of Aberdeen is a sight worth seeing. It is one of the most picturesque places in Hong Kong. Beautiful large Junks gather here by the hundreds. The natives here are descendants of the pirates who made Hong Kong dreaded by peaceful traders. Take a ride on the Peak Tram, to the top of Hong Kong’s Peak. You must visit the Chinese temples and historical sites in Hong Kong.
macao . . . Macao Colony of Portugal is at the Peninsula of Chung Shan, Kwangtung. All tourists should visit this city, which is a mixture of the new and the old Chinese, Portuguese, and Spanish as well. The architecture combines the best of these
nations, too. The streets are beautifully lined by fine old trees. Macao is called the Monte Carlo of the Orient. In the center of the city there are interesting gambling houses where fortunes are continuously changing hands. There are many points of interest to foreign visitors in this small colony. The Praya Grande, the Grotto of the Poet Camoens, where there is a bronze bust of Portugal’s immortal poet. It is believed that it was at this spot the poet was inspired to write some cantos of his well-known poem “The Luisadas.” There are many Chinese temples to be seen here; beautiful gardens; the Guia Lighthouse, the oldest on the China Coast; the famous facade of the Cathedral of St. Paul, which is centuries old; Penha Hill; the Barrier Gate between this colony and Chinese territory. Don’t miss the Avenida Almeida Ribeiro, the main shopping center of Macao. Kun Yam Tong, the Temple of the Goddess of Mercy, is where the first treaty between the United States and China was signed in 1844. Lin Fung Miu is another ancient Chinese temple, as well as the Ma Kok Miu, Temple of A-Ma, after whom Macao is named. Macao was formerly known as A-Ma. Other places of interest to see are; the Yards for Junks—all types are seen here, fishing junks, sampans and other wooden vessels; a trip to a match factory—the manufacture of matches is one of the important industries. There are some good hotels and restaurants here such as the Hotel Riviera, the Grand Hotel, and Restaurant, the Central Hotel and Restaurant and Fa Siu Lau (Laughing Buddha Restaurant famous for roast pigeon), Nan Lau Restaurant. The Melco Club, which is the Macao Electric Light Co.’s staff club, is open to visitors for golf and other recreations.
new territories ... Consist of 355 square miles leased from China on the mainland . . . terrace farming and typical Chinese villages.. .affords an interesting drive for a morning or afternoon.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing, cricket, soccer and rugby, tennis, hockey, soft ball (American style).
SPORTS . . . Golf, lawn bowls, tennis, swimming. There are three golf courses in Hong Kong: Shek-O, Deep Water Bay and one in the New Territories.
THEATRES . . . Except for interesting Mandarin plays, only amateur drama is available.
TIME... 16 hours ahead of United States Pacific Coast Time.
TIPPING . . . Ten or fifteen per cent.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Motor cars, rickshaws, tram cars, sedan chairs, buses, transport coolies, and lorries.
WATER . . . Excellent.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Because the port of Hong Kong is free of import duty on everything except liquor, tobacco and bullets, it is much cheaper to buy things here. French perfumes, hats, dresses and shoes. Beautiful Chinese embroidered underwear and Mandarin coats. Beautiful laces, embroidered linen for sheets and towels, exquisite organdies for table cloths. There are many shops where you can buy Chinese objets d’art, including ivory, jade, carved stone, cloisonné, porcelain, lacquer ware, jewelry and just about anything the Chinese have ever produced.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . For summer, clothing should be as light as possible. Sun shades and shady hats will be comfortable, too. A top coat may be required sometimes.
Hong Kong is all harbors and mountains, a busy port and exciting place to visit. World travelers shouldn’t miss this beautiful bit of the orient.

[156]