NEW HORIZONS
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA (Cont.)
DRUG STORES . . . Drug stores are called Chemist’s Shops as in England. They sell only pharmaceuticals. There are several which carry familiar patent drugs in Capetown. Haynes Mathew, Ltd., carry Elizabeth Arden and Dorothy Gray toiletries, for instance.
FAUNA . . . South Africa abounds with fabulous birds and beasts. Best known bird, of course, is the ostrich. There are secretary birds, pelicans, flamingos, African hoopoes, purple widow birds, red-eyed bubuls, herons and many others. All of these are not, of course, to be seen around Capetown, but they are found throughout the Union. Kruger National Park is the largest game sanctuary in the world. Here you will see lions, elephants, giraffes and all the other wild animals that spell South Africa to you. There are rigid game laws all through the Union of South Africa.
FLORA . . . Thousands of flowers are to be seen during the spring months, September-November. The national flower of the Union, the Protea is of course found in the Cape. Wild Arum lilies, Chincherinchees with blooms that last for months, roses, dahlias, almost anything you can name are here. The Silver Leaf tree is indigenous and unique. Bougainvillea grows in profusion as do camelias, cannas, acacia, wild cosmos and hundreds of other flowers. Jacaranda trees are numerous. The Kirtenbosch National Botanic Gardens on the slopes of Table Mountain is devoted to the study of native South African Flora.
FOOD . . . South African Lobster tails are a great delicacy. They are served many ways. Buttered Chunks Afrikaans for instance; cooked in butter and simmered they are served on buttered noodles or browned rice. Fish is, of course, plentiful and good. The variety of fruit is enormous; tangerines, lemons, figs, pineapple, papaw, avocado and the more familiar melons, oranges, apples, pears. Rock oysters and crawfish are excellent. There is no food rationing in South Africa. National dishes lean toward stews and barbecues.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing in Capetown, Durban, Johannesburg.
LANGUAGE . . . The populace is bi-lingual, speaking Afrikaans and English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES ... Good and quick.
LIQUOR .. . South African wines are famous. They make pretty good brandy and some good sweet wines and a fair sherry. Whiskey and other spirits obtainable at lower prices than in the United States but very scarce.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are excellent doctors and dentists. You may get free hospital treatment at any of the State Hospitals but special medical treatment is charged for. Largest state hospital is Groote Schuur General Hospital. There are many private hospitals and nursing homes.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are several modern movie houses with English and American films. Largest are: the Colosseum, lower St. George’s Street; the Alhambra, Riebeeck Street and the Plaza, St. George’s Street. There are two performances a day at 3 p.m. and 8.15 p.m. Seats may be reserved in advance.
MUSIC .. . The Municipal Symphony holds concerts alternate Thursdays, Saturday and Sundays. There are Ballet and Opera performances seasonally. Guest conductors, singers and dancers visit the Cape. An Eisteddfod or festival is held each year and is an important event in the Province. The University has a College of Music, and there are several musical societies and two choral groups.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . .. Most entertainment is in the home. There are few night clubs as we know them.
RELIGION . . . The Anglican Cathedral on St. George’s Street; The Dutch Reformed Church on Adderley Street; St. Mary’s (Roman Catholic) Plein Street; Indian Mahomedan Mosque, Long Street; Methodist Church, Greenmarket Square; Lutheran Church, Strand Street; Presbyterian Church, Somerset Road; Christian Science Church, Grey’s Pass and Orange Street. Jewish Synagogue, Mahomedan Mosque, the largest in southern hemisphere, Chapel and Muir Streets.
RESTAURANTS . . . The two large restaurants with orchestras are Del Monico, Riebeeck Street and the Waldorf in St. George’s Street.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Store hours are 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and on Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Greenacres and Stutta-fords are among the better stores.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Capetown is the Parliamentary Capital of the Union of South Africa. It is a magnificent scenic city, sometimes compared to Naples because of its location on Table Bay with Table Mountain rising majestically behind the city, to a height of 3,549 feet. On either side of Table Mountain are the peaks of Devil’s Peak and Lion’s Head. Beyond Lion’s Head a series of peaks known as the Twelve Apostles stretch toward the Cape Point. It is possible to reach the top of Table Mountain by Aerial Railway and a have view of both the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. At first sight Table Mountain seems to be an unbroken precipice, but there is a deep gorge which splits it in two. The foliage and flowers which abound in the valleys and glens are magnificent. The aerial cableway makes trips every half hour, weather permitting.
Capetown is a blend of the old and the new. There are narrow streets recalling Dutch Colonial days; there are tall office buildings. Visit the Michaelis Collection of Flemish and Dutch paintings at Longmarket and Burg Streets, The South African Museum with its fascinating “Post Office Stones,” The National Art Gallery, the Koopman’s-de Wet Museum which is an eighteenth century town house; the Houses of Parliament which may be visited during recess, the Flower Market opposite the Post Office, the Castle, whose foundations were laid in 1666. Churches of historical interest include St. George’s Cathedral; Dutch Reformed Church and St. Mary’s Cathedral. Visit the Municipal Botanical Gardens which are open daily until sunset. The gardens occupy the seventeenth century site of the Dutch East India Company and contain magnificent specimens of trees and tropical plants. Take a three-mile jaunt to the Aquarium, the most modern in the Southern Hemisphere, located at Sea Point, one of the dozen or more beach resorts within a twenty mile radius of Capetown. Visit the Groote Schuur Estate, the residence of the Prime Minister, which was left to the country by Cecil Rhodes. It houses a fine collection of antiques. This is at Rondebusch about five miles from town. The zoo is also at Rondebusch to the East, and so is the Rhodes Memorial. Coastal suburbs stretch in each direction from Capetown, some on the Atlantic Ocean and some on False Bay. The National Botanic Gardens at Kirstenbosch are among the most famous in the world. They are situated on the eastern slopes of Table Mountain about eight miles from the city. Here you see the magnificent Silver trees, exotic South African flowers and trees in a 400 acre area. There are a tea-house and places to picnic. Admission to the gardens is free. Groot Constantia is one of the few remaining old Cape houses in Dutch colonial period. It is now a State museum. This house is about twelve miles from Capetown in Wynberg. The Royal Cape Golf Club is here and there are good hotels. Take the Marine Drive which runs for about 100 miles around the Cape Peninsula. Wander along the coastline beneath the Twelve Apostles range and on to the point where the Atlantic and Indian Oceans meet. From here you return by way of False Bay passing the Royal Naval Base at Simonstown, to Muizenberg, one of the most famous resorts in South Africa. Here the temperature of the water is warm enough for year around swimming. And there are several good hotels. Among them the Alexandra, Marine and Balmoral. Here the road swings inland taking in the residential suburbs of Capetown. You can take a by-pass and see the Constantia Valley, a famous wine growing district. There are excellent motor coaches which take various trips from Capetown. These buses are streamlined and comfortable, have radios, reclining seats and other comforts.
The Garden Route tour from Capetown to Plettenberg Bay on the Indian Ocean is one of the most famous. This is a distance of about 300 miles and the tour takes five days. This trip goes through one of the most beautiful sections of South Africa. The “Garden” lies between the sea and the Outeniqua and Tsitsikima ranges to the north and east. The trip takes in the fabulous Cango Caves, proceeds over Montagu Pass to George and on to “The Wilderness,” one of the most lovely seaside resorts in South Africa. There is a good hotel at The Wilderness and there is a chain of lakes which parallel the coast. It is possible to continue
[179]