NEW HORIZONS
URUGUAY (Cont.)
you, however. Dial “213” will tell you where the nearest drug store is located and what hours it is open.
FAUNA. . . Pumas and jaguars are almost extinct now. Partridge, quail, parakeet are plentiful. American ostriches may also be seen.
FLORA . . . Acacia, willow, pine, eucalyptus trees everywhere. Scarlet and white verbena brighten the prairies. Bougainvillea and other semi-tropical flowers grow in profusion.
FOOD . . . Beef is practically the national dish, and you get steak such as you have never eaten, for very reasonable prices. Other specialties include barbecued pig, grilled chicken in wine, meat pie. Maté, the South American tea is the favorite drink. Native wines are excellent. Pastries wonderful to look at and marvelous to eat. Leading hotels are fashionable places to eat, and are excellent. There are many restaurants serving international food. And because of the large Italian population there are many fine Italian restaurants.
GAMBLING. . . There are many gaming casinos. Several of the fashionable hotels in Montevideo and the smart beach resorts have their own. There is horse racing Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays at Hipódromo de Maroñas and Hipódromo de las Piedras with pari-mutuels.
LANGUAGE. . . Spanish is the native tongue. But English and French are common.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING. . . Laundry facilities are excellent. It is one of the few places where you can have wool socks washed without fear of shrinkage.
LIQUOR. . . Local wines are fine and cheap. Other liquors are less expensive here than at home.
MEDICAL FACILITIES. . . There is a well equipped hospital with English speaking doctors and nurses. There are available many doctors and dentists who have had United States training.
MOTION PICTURES. . . Several excellent picture houses showing American films. Movies have continuous performances from 1:00 to 10:00 p.m.
MUSIC... In addition to symphony concerts (see under theatres) there is very little of musical interest. Popular music: tango, milonga, vidalita, etc., is similar to that of Argentina.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . Night life flourishes in Uruguay. Most of it centers around the casinos which are among the largest and most luxurious in South America. The leading bars are favorite night spots, too. Among them Cassonis, El Faro, Sevilla Colmado. Spots with dancing signs are not considered respectable.
PAN AMERICAN’S OFFICE.. .Palacio Salvo, Andes 1341-43. Plaza Independencia 848 (Tel. 8-9787).
RELIGION . . . Cathedral at Plaza Matriz, many other Catholic churches in different parts of town and in all interior cities. Two Methodist churches, one Anglican, one Baptist, two Adventist, one German church, six synagogues.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS ... You can find restaurants of all types in Montevideo. Morini's is famous for steak and local dishes. Cassoni's is wonderful and has an orchestra. El Aguila is best known spot in capital. Their special dessert, gateau Aguila is excellent. For typical Uruguayan dishes, try Forte Makale, Stradella or Troccoli. Typical small native spot is the Monterrery with pool room and bar where chivitos (steak on a roll) is served.
SHOPS AND STORES. . . Leading shops are: London Paris, Caubarrere, Tienda Inglesa, La Madrileña and Casa Rim which are department stores. Specialty shops include: Bazar Colon for old silver, Casa Schiavo for leather goods. Bargaining is not an accepted practice. The Sunday street fair is worth seeing and often produces bargains.
SIGHTSEEING . . . Montevideo is a charming city, modeled to some extent on Paris. Its avenues are broad and tree-shaded, and most of the pedestrians use the sidewalk arcades. Montevideo is a cafe town and the streets are lined with sidewalk cafes with people drinking “café exprés.” There are numerous
things to see in Montevideo itself. And many short excursions within city limits. The Legislative Palace, of Uruguayan marble and pink granite, topped with gold. The residential areas are filled with beautiful homes. The beautiful drive along the Rambla follows the beaches to Carrasco. From Montevideo to some 200 miles up the coast there is a chain of beaches and beach resorts. All of which are delightful, all worth seeing. A three-day excursion of interest is to La Coronilla on the Brazilian border. Santa Teresa National Park almost at the Brazilian border surrounds the Santa Teresa fortress. There are camp sites, flower gardens, bathing beaches and a zoological park. Another excursion center is Minas, about 78 miles from Montevideo, with a Renaissance church, and two good hotels. An interesting trip, too, is to Colonia Suiza founded by Swiss colonizers. Be sure to visit a ranch in the cattle country.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Horse racing Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. Soccer in their Fall or Winter. Pelota vasca, similar to Jai Alai. Basketball the year round. Yacht races, and golf and tennis tournaments.
SPORTS. . . Golf at Montevideo Club which has a championship course. Hotel guests of the Parque, Miramar and Carrasco granted guest cards. There are excellent courses at the beach resorts. Punta del Este has the Cantegril Country Club and Punta del Este Yacht Club. Cards may be arranged. Fishing for Dorado is one of great sports of the country. Salto Grande (Great Falls) is happy hunting ground for this colorful fish. There is a ranch style guest house at Salto Grande run by Uruguayan Tourist Commission. Dorados are caught in the streams and rapids formed by the flow of Great Falls. Horseback riding is, of course, possible; horses may be hired. Sailing and yachting is a national sport and you may hire boats at beach resorts. Aquaplaning is possible if you have the skill. Tennis at all beach resorts and Montevideo, too.
THEATRES. . . Solis, Audit or io, Artigas, 18 de Julio, Sala Verdi. Legitimate plays staged during winter season (United States summer months) by the Comedia Nacional (National Theater Company). Good Spanish, Argentine, Italian and French theatre, ballet, opera and musical comedy groups play Montevideo during winter season. Also, fine Symphony concerts by the National Symphony Orchestra at the Auditorio, featuring world-famous conductors and soloists.
TIME... 2 hours ahead of United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . Hotels and most restaurants add a service charge varying from ten to fifteen percent. Cab drivers should get about ten per cent of the fare. Cafes have no service charge, so tip about fifteen percent. Movie ushers receive 10 centesimos, or less than a nickel.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Bus service is excellent in Montevideo and to the beach resorts. Taxis are plentiful but are expensive, being comparable to New York. Private cars are available for hire.
WATER... Perfectly safe to drink. Sanitation standards are the same as in the United States.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Nutria furs are wonderful here. Riding boots may be bought cheaply. Cowhide and sheepskin rugs, amethysts, topazes and agates, leather work and Swiss watches are all good buys. For fun you’ll want some “bombachas,” the wide, baggy ankle-length trousers worn by the gauchos.
WHAT TO WEAR. . . During the season, their Summer, you’ll want the same type of summer clothes you would wear at home. For beach wear, the newest, smartest sports and beach togs are needed. You won’t really need evening clothes for life is informal. But some short dinner dresses in cotton or light color are appropriate. Take a light topcoat, a sweater or two. If you go in their Wintertime, take clothes for an average Fall day at home. Same requirements apply to men. Linen, cotton or lightweight wools for summer. Beach clothes, slacks, sports shirts. A topcoat.
117]