SOUTH AFRICA
x '—i
WEATHER IN CAPETOWN—Lat. S33°56'—Alt. 25'
JAN. FEB. MAR. APR. MAY JUNE JULY AUG. SEPT. OCT. NOV. DEC.
i Low	60°	61°	59°	54°	51°	48°	47°	48°	50°	53°	55°	58'
Temp. < High	80°	80°	78°	72°	.67°	63°	62°	63°	66°	70°	74°	77'
1 Average	70°	70°	69°	63°	59°	56°	55°	56°	58°	62°	65°	68'
Days of Rainfall	4	4	4	7	10	12	11	11	9	7	6	5
LOCATION ... At the southern tip of Africa lies the Union of South Africa, comprising the provinces of Cape of Good Hope (Cape Province), Natal, Orange Free State and Transvaal where Johannesburg is located.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Here is a land of contrasts of wonderful tropical beaches, lush foliage, brilliant sunshine and high cool mountains, rugged terrain and endless stretches of veld. Brilliant flowers bloom in profusion along the South African coast. Capetown and Durban are cosmopolitan and gay. There are wonderful hotels, excellent swimming and fishing and all the gaiety you want. To the north, Johannesburg offers an interesting city with a marvelous cool climate. Kruger National Park, the sanctuary for wild animals, is an unforgettable spot. So for that matter is all of South Africa with its color, strangeness and allure.
POPULATION . . . Estimated 11,391,950 (equal to the populations of New York City and Chicago.) Capetown with about 470,000 inhabitants is slightly smaller than Kansas City. Johannesburg with about 758,000 is slightly smaller than San Francisco.
SIZE... 472,550 square miles, almost twice as large as Texas.
CAPITAL . . . Pretoria is the administrative capital; Capetown, the legislative capital.
GOVERNMENT ... a self-governing British Dominion; a Governor-General represents the King.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, 45y2 hours from New York to Johannesburg. By South African Airways, 4 hours from Johannesburg to Capetown. By ship about 17 days from New York.
CAPETOWN
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are many excellent hotels in Capetown and its suburbs. Among them: the Mount Nelson, which stands at the top of Government Avenue in its own grounds with magnificent views, the Carleton, the Grand, the Avalon. Rates at top hotels about $5.50 to $6 American plan single. In nearby Sea Point try the Queens Hotel right on the ocean. At Muizenberg on False Bay, to the east, the Balmoral or Marine, the Alexandra. There are pensions and boarding houses in Capetown and its environs which are good, clean and reasonable.
ARTS. . . The Michaelis collection of Dutch and Flemish paintings is open to the public. The collection is housed in the Old Town House which was built in 1755 and is an excellent example of the architecture of that period. The building is surmounted by a little domed tower which has a gong. The interior has been carefully reconstructed and is an excellent background for the paintings among which are a Hals and a Rembrandt. Visit the South African Museum filled with items of archeological and ethnological interest. The National Art Gallery, off Government Avenue, contains fourteen galleries. Principal collections are the de Pass and Sir Abe Bailey exhibits. There are special exhibitions throughout the year. Koopman’s-de Wet Museum contains a collection of Dutch Colonial furniture, china and other nineteenth century antiques.
BALLET.. . Visiting companies perform occasionally. There are two ballet groups in Capetown.
BANKS. . . Barclay’s Bank, 82 Adderley Street, The Standard Bank of South Africa, Netherlands Bank of South Africa, and Volkskas Bank. American Express will cash travelers’ checks.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS. . . New Year’s Day; Van Riebeeck Day, April 6; Good Friday, Easter Monday, Ascension Day; Union Day, May 31; King’s Birthday, second Monday in July; Settlers Day, first Monday in September; Kruger Day, October 10; Geloftedag (Day of the Vow) December 16, which is Dingaan’s Day; Christmas and Boxing Day, December 26.
CIGARETTES, CIGARS, TOBACCO . . . South Africa manufactures its own cigarettes. English brands are available, but high priced.
CLIMATE.. . The seasons are the reverse of ours. Spring starts in September, summer in December and winter in June. The temperature of Capetown is similar to that of the Riviera. But in their summer the days are apt to be quite hot although the temperature drops at night. The rainy season comes during the winter months, that is June-August. It never gets very cold, but there are occasional snow flurries on the top of Table Mountain which rises behind the city to a height of 3,549 feet. Autumn, March-May is particularly delightful and in the Spring the mountain slopes are carpeted with flowers.
CLUBS . . . Rotary Club, Capetown City Club, Royal Cape Yacht Club, Zeekoe Vlei Yacht Club (visiting yachtsmen may become temporary members on application) Cape Hunt and Polo Club (member cards may be arranged for members of similar clubs in the States), Mountain Club of South Africa gives advice on climbing, Ski Club for which guest cards may be arranged. For golf clubs see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Natives are pure blooded aboriginals usually of the Bantu race. Persons of mixed origin are referred to as coloured.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . There is telephone service between Africa and North America and of course London. There are telegraph and cable offices in almost every village. Air Mail.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit is the South African pound worth about $2.80.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED ... All goods must be declared. Cameras, field glasses, typewriters, etc., are duty free, but declarable. Open your carton of cigarettes; there is a duty on liquor. Passport and visa necessary. Proof of sufficient means and a return ticket are essential. Yellow fever and small pox vaccination certificates required.
[178]