Limousine
A limousine (bus) runs to the city center. The journey costs Y480 and can take anything between 30 and 60 minutes depending on the traffic.
LANDMARKS
The major landmarks on this map have been illustrated with a grid reference for speedy identification.
Asakusa Kannon Temple (B11)
Said to have been founded in the 7th century and dedicated to the Kannon, or goddess of mercy. The long approach to the temple from Kaminarimon Gate is lined with little shops.
Imperial Palace (E7)
In the heart of the city, covering an area of 250 acres and surrounded by a series of moats. In front of the main entrance to the Palace there is a splendid plaza and a huge fountain built to commemorate the Crown Prince's marriage.
Kabuziza Theater (G9)
A 2,322-seater modern building in the Japanese style. The best place to go to see classical Japanese drama.
Kasumigaseki Building (G7)
A 36-story building with a observatory on top. The building and district of Kasumigaseki are named after a guard who lived in this area in the 14th century.
Meiji Jingu Shrine (F2)
Dedicated to the Emperor Meiji and his consort and set in a garden with more than 100,000 trees donated by the public. In the southern part of the grounds is an iris garden with more than 80 varieties and on the stage in front of the shrine there are ancient dances and songs on festival days.
National Diet Building (F7)
A three-story white building of granite and marble. On the right is the House of Councillors and on thedeft is the House of Representatives.
National Stadium (F3)
In the Meiji Olympic park or the Outer Garden of the Meiji shrine this huge stadium was the center of the 1968 Olympics.
National Theater (E6)
Two theaters on the site; the larger with 1,764 seats is for Japanese classical drama (kabuki) and court music (gagaku); the smaller, with 630 seats, is for music, dancing, comedy and puppet dramas.
Shinjuku Station Square ( D1 )
Spectacular modern station in the suburbs of uptown Tokyo. The building has 250 shops, restaurants, art galleries, cafés—even a school of Japanese culture. Directly in front of the station there is an old horse-watering fountain, a gift from the citizens of London in 1906.
Tokyo Tower (H7)
A gigantic TV and radio tower, the tallest steel tower in the world at 1,092 ft. It has two observation platforms from which you can see the whole city and also Tokyo Bay and the Izu and Boso Peninsulas.
World Trade Center Building (H7)
Forty stories high and surrounded by a Japanese garden.
Yasukuni Shrine ( D6)
On Kudan Hill, just north of the Imperial Palace. A Shinto shrine which is dedicated to war and deifies all those who die fighting for their country.
ACCOMMODATIONS
When you visit Tokyo you stay in either a modern Westernized hotel or a traditional Japanese ryokan (lodging house). Though completely different, both are spotlessly clean and comfortable. In a ryokan you get a large room often with its own verandah and furnished with cushions and bedding which you spread on mats on the floor. The total cost per day, including breakfast, supper and bath is Y3,500 per person. For information apply to the Tourist Office, the hotel reservation counter at the airport or the Japan Ryokan Association, 1 -8-3 Marunouchi (tel: 231 -5310).
Most hotels are air-conditioned and have TV, restaurants, bars, etc. Membership of the Japan Hotel Association guarantees especially good facilities and service. Their address is Building 1-4-6, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-Ku (D7) (tel: 211-1529). Meals are nearly always Western-style with Japanese specialties. Included in the check is a service charge of 10—15% and 10% tax.
Special off-season rates at hotels are available only in resort areas outside the city. Some recommended hotels are:
Single from Y7.200 ($27); double from Y8,500($32) Hotel Okura, Aoicho, Akasaka, Minato-ku Single from Y5,500 ($21 ) ; double from Y6.000 ($23) Keio Plaza Inter Continental Hotel, Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku
Tokyo Hilton Hotel, Nagata-cho, Chiyoda-ku
Single from Y4,200 ($16); double from Y6.300($24) Daiichi Ginza Hotel, 8-chome Ginza, Chuo-ku HanedaTokyu Hotel, at Haneda International Airport Hotel New Japan, Nagata-cho, Chiyoda-ku Hotel Pacific, Takanawa, Minato-ku
Single from Y3,600 ($14): double from Y6.400 ($24)
Palace Hotel, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Daiichi Shimbashi Hotel, Shimbashi, Minato-ku
Single from Y1.600 ($6); double from Y 3,400 ($13)
Gajoen Kanko Hotel, Shimo-Meguro, Meguro-ku
TRANSPORTATION
Taxis
Most hotels and stations have stands where you can call a taxi. Otherwise flag one in the street if you can.
It's best to write down the address and show it to the driver. Fares start at Y 170 for the first two kilometers and are 20% more from 11 pm.
Subway
The subway system is one of the best in the world—clean, comfortable and punctual. All signs are in English and Japanese and the entrances are clearly marked with a blue and white 'S' sign. Trains run every 3—5 minutes and fares are low—between Y30—Y70 according to the distance. Buy your ticket at a ticket window before going on to the platform.
Streetcars
Unlike some of the buses, streetcars have clearly visible numbers both in front and behind; it's quite easy to find your way around provided you have a map of the lines. If you have the exact fare (Y30) hand it to the conductor at the rear when you get off. Otherwise buy a ticket from him when he makes his rounds.
Trolleybuses
Trolleybuses operate on four routes. The fare is Y40 per route.
Buses
Good and inexpensive but the signs are in Japanese only. The fare is Y40 or more according to the distance.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Breakfast is generally from 7—9, lunch from noon—2 and dinner anytime between 6 and 10.
Tokyo has almost every kind of European and Asian cooking. Whenever possible go to one of the 165
restaurants belonging to the Japan Restaurant Association. These are specially chosen for their high standards in cooking and sanitation. Those that have been passed as exceptionally clean have a 'Grade A' sign hung at the entrance or on the wall inside. At better restaurants you will get d la carte and table d'hote and the menu will be written in English, sometimes even French, as well as Japanese. In less expensive restaurants, which are Japanese only, you can always order by studying the samples arranged in their display windows. No tax is levied on meals costing less than Y 900 (US$3.50) but after that a 10% tax is levied on the check. There is also usually a 10% service charge included. Most of the expensive restaurants are around the Ginza area (G9). The best Chinese restaurants are around Shimbashi Station (H8).
A Japanese meal consists of a large number of small side dishes served with lots of rice. Green tea is usually served with the meal but any other drink is extra. Some of the Japanese dishes to try are: sukiyaki (sliced beef with vegetables cooked over a brazier); tempura (deep fried sea food); kabayaki (rice with eels); yaki-tori (roast chicken); ni-zakana (fish cooked in soy sauce); sashimi (raw fish with rice); support (turtle soup); suimono (thin, clear soup).
Some of the best restaurants are:
Expensive
Maxim, Mitsuwa Building, 7-2 Ginza 6-chome, Chuo-ku (G9) (tel: 527-4875). French haute cuisine. Branch of the Paris Maxim.
China House, 8-7 Nishi Shimb Ashi 2-chome, Minato-ku (H8) (tel: 591 -4301). Some of the best Chinese food.
Akasaka Misono, 14-31 Akasaka 2-chome,
Minato-ku (G5) (tel: 583-3389). Japanese cooking. Steaks and sukiyaki.
Medium
Rangetsu, 5-8 Ginza, 3-chome, Chuo-ku (G10) (tel: 567-1021). Good sukiyaki and cheaper than most. Ten-ichi, 6-5 Ginza 6-chome Chuo-ku (G10) (tel: 571-1272). Specialty sea food, especially tempura. Suehiro, 11-2 Ginza 6-chome, Chuo-ku (G10) (tel:
571 -9271). Specialty sukiyaki.
Inexpensive
Izumo-soba, 1-51 Kanda Jumbo-cho, Chiyoda-ku (F6) (tel: 291-3005).
Tatsumi, 8-7 Akasaka 2-chome, Minato-ku (G5) (tel: 583-3355).
Quick Eating
As well as hamburgers and hot dogs, Japanese street stalls sell quick, inexpensive dishes like soba (buckwheat noodles with meat and vegetables) : yaki-tori
I (charcoal-grilled, soy-basted chicken) or satsmaimo (baked sweet potatoes). They are all quite safe to eat.
DRINKING TIPS
The sale of liquor is restricted in night-clubs, restaurants and bars where they may not serve drinks after 11.30 pm.
Sake is the only specifically Japanese alcoholic drink.
It is a rice wine, usually served warm, which goes very well with Japanese food, especially sea food. Japanese beer is rather like German lager and very good. The whisky is also quite good, but costly. Prices of imported liquors are outrageous. The Japanese also make some quite good red wine as well as rosé. A good brand is Mercian Cabernet at Y600 a bottle.
Many small bars are practically clubs so it's best to see if you are welcome before you start ordering drinks. If you are not, there will be countless other bars within strolling distance. Some of the good ones to try are: Chopin, 2-2 Ginza, Chuo-ku (G9) (tel: 561-1231).
Yie Lai Shian. 2-4 Shimbashi, Minato-ku (H8) (tel:
591 -5595).
Golden Gessekai, 10-4 Akasaka 3-chome, Minato-ku (G5) (tel: 584-1151).
Van, Isetan Kaikan, 3-8 Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku (D2)
(tel: 352-2745).
ENTERTAINMENT
Information about what's on wfll be in any of the four English newspapers issued in Japan, the Japan Times, Mainichi Daily News, Yomiuri and Asahi Evening News. The best place to get tickets is called a Play-Guide—an agency which sells tickets to theaters, sporting events etc., usually found in the big department stores. Tickets are usually sold out some time in advance.
Theater
Japanese theater is usually either Kabuki drama, Noh plays or Bunraku puppet shows. Kabuki is a traditional theater art with dances, music, gorgeous costumes, elaborate setting and colorful make-up. It is probably the most popular with foreigners. In Noh plays there is an orchestra, a chorus and the actors wear masks.
The Japanese puppet plays are world-famous and accompanied by powerful music and lovely costumes. Noh plays can be seen at the National Theater (E6) or the Kita Noh Stage, 4-6-9 Kami-Osaki, Shinagawa-Ku
(tel : 491 -9598). Kabuki is at the National Theater or the Kabuziza Theater, 4-3 Ginza-Higashi, Chuo-Ku (G9). Bunraku shows are at the National Theater.
Music
Classical music concerts are nearly always at the Tokyo Metropolitan Festival Hall 45, 5-chome Ueno Park, Taito-Ku (A9) (tel: 828-2111).
Movies
There are countless movie houses in Tokyo, both Japanese and Western. Most of the foreign movies retain the original soundtracks with Japanese subtitles. They are occasionally dubbed, so check before you go.
Night Spots
To go out at night in Tokyo is very expensive. It is a good idea to find out what things will cost first. In some clubs you might have to pay Y 1,000 to Y 8,000 to be entertained by a hostess. Geisha parties can be arranged but are cripplingly expensive. Otherwise, there are literally hundreds of plush night-clubs with floorshows and hostesses. Most of them are in the Ginza area although it is also very lively around Shinjuku station. Some clubs to try are:
Copacabana, 6-4 Akasaka, 3-chome Minato-ku (G5) (tel: 585-5811).
Queen Bee, 8-5 Ginza 6-chome Chuo-ku (G9) (tel: 573-7251).
Crown, 5-13 Ginza, 6-chome Chuo-ku (G9) (tel: 572-5511).
Golden Gessekai, 10-4 Akasaka 3-chome Minato-ku (G5) (tel: 584-1151).
SHOPPING
Best Buys
Cameras, transistor radios, record players and watches; china and pottery; silks and pearls; bamboo ware; lacquer ware; dolls. It is possible to buy tax-free articles from accredited souvenir shops or members of the Japan Quality Store Association. They will give you a form marked 'Record of Purchase of Commodities Tax-Exempt' which is filled in and attached to your passport.
Hours
Shops and stores on the main streets are usually open from about 10—8, even on Sundays. Department stores close about 6 and are closed for one whole weekday.
Tokyo has several giant department stores like Tokyu, Isetan, Takashimaya, Matsuya, Matsuzakaya and Mitsukoshi. The latter three are along the Ginza (G9).
They sell everything from bamboo flutes to televisions and many of them have children's playgrounds and nurseries on the upper floors. One store even has an 18-hole golf course. For souvenirs try also the shopping arcades in the major hotels. Sunday is the biggest shopping day and many major streets are open to pedestrians only on Sunday afternoons. Some of the best shops to try are:
Pearls, Asahi Shoten, Imperial Hotel Arcade (G8); Fuji Pearl, Ginza-Nishi Go-chome (G8); Kuki Pearls, International Arcade (G8)
Kimonos: K Hayashi Kimono, International Arcade (G8)
Tailoring: H Baromon and Co, Aoyama Ichome (F4) Bamboo ware: Angel, Nikkatsu Arcade (F8)
Pottery: Takumi, near Nikko Hotel (G8)
Cameras, radios etc: Hero Camera Co Ltd, Sony Building 'Galleria' Store (Floor B1) Ginza Sukiyabashi intersection iG8)
Markets
Central Wholesale Market, Chuo-ku (G9-10).
One of the largest markets in the world dealing with meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables and nearly all Tokyo's fresh fish.
MUSEUMS AND ART GALLERIES
Bridgestone Galley (F9)
1, Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-Ku. Open 10-5:30 except Mon. Paintings and sculptures by Japanese and Western artists of the 18th and 19th centuries.
Communications Museum (E9)
3-1 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-Ku. Open 9—4:30 except Mon. Stamps, postcards, telephones, etc.
Meiji Memorial Picture Gallery (F4)
Meiji Shrine Outer Gardens. Open 3—5 Nov—Mar,
9—4:30 Apr-Oct. Fine modern building with pictures showing the main events of the reign of the Emperor.
Metropolitan Art Gallery (A10)
Ueno Park, Taito-Ku. Open 9—4. Art exhibitions all year round.
National Museum (A10)
Ueno Park, Open 9:30—5 except Mon. Largest museum in Japan with 86,000 exhibits showing the history and fine arts of Japan and other oriental countries.
National Museum of Modern Art.(D8)
3 Kitanomaru Park, Chiyoda-Ku. Open 10—5 except Mon. Modern Western and Japanese paintings, the latter including lithographs, woodblock printing and copper-plate prints. Often special exhibitions.
National Science Museum (A10)
Ueno Park, Taito-Ku. Open 9-4:30 except Mon. Exhibits of zoology, botany, physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology, geography and oceanography.
National Museum of Western Art (A10)
Ueno Park, Taito-Ku. Open 9:30—5 exept Mon. Great collection including the famous Matsukata collection of Cézanne, Rodin, Degas, Monet, etc.
Okura Museum of Antiques (G6)
3 Akasaka Aoicho, Minato-Ku. Closed Mon. Ancient art and books, mainly Japanese but also from other oriental countries.
Suntory Gallery (E8)
Annexe, Palace Building 10,1 -chome Marunouchi, Chiyoda-Ku. Open 10—5 except Mon. Japanese classical arts including scrolls, ceramics, earthenware, lacquer ware.
Tsubouchi Memorial Theater Museum, Waseda Machi (B4)
The best theater museum in Japan, showing the history of classical drama, puppet drama, Japanese song and dance etc.
OTHER PLACES OF INTEREST
Ueno Park (A10) : Formerly a rich man's private estate but was converted into a public park in 1878. It contains the Toshogu Shrine, dating from 1692; the five-story pagoda of Kan-eiji temple, built in 1639; the Shinobazu Pond, across which you can walk on special walkways; the Aquatic branch of Ueno Zoo; and the temple of Benten, goddess of good fortune.
Shinjuku : Start at the Meiji Shrine Outer Gardens (F3), also known as the Meiji Olympic Park. This was •one of the major staging areas for the Tokyo Olympic Games and here you will see the National Stadium, one of the largest arenas in the world with 85,000 seats. Round about are other Olympic buildings—the two Jingu baseball stadiums, the Prince Chichibu football field and the ultra-modern Tokyo Gymnasium. The Memorial Hall is in a separate part of the gardens. It used to be part of the Aoyama Palace but it is now used mainly for weddings. Across the railroad line are the Shinjuku Gyoen National Gardens (E3). They are worth a visit to see the huge greenhouses with hundreds of tropical plants.
SIGHTSE€ING
Nikko: Ninety miles north of Tokyo, Nikko is a two-hour
journey by train. The city is a base for Nikko National Park with beautiful Lake Chuzenji, surrounded by hills and ending in the Kegon Fall, a spectacular, sheer 333 ft. waterfall. In this area there is yachting, boating, fishing, mountain climbing and in winter skiing and skating. In the city itself see the Toshogu Shrine, built in 1636 as a mausoleum. Also Yomeimon Gate with its intricate decorations and carvings.
Kamakura: Thirty-one miles southwest of Tokyo, Kamakura is easily reached by frequent electric trains.
The ancient seat of feudal government from 1192—1333 with a huge, bronze image of Buddha, 42 ft high and 700 years old. The city is also a popular seaside resort because of its warm sunshine and bathing beaches.
USEFULTIPS
Tipping
Not expected by taxi drivers, waiters, hairdressers, chambermaids etc. The only exceptions are railroad and airport porters, who are usually tipped Y50 per bag. Also tip the hotel porter or chambermaid if they have done some special service. In restaurants a 10% service charge is generally added to the check.
Electricity
Generally 110 volts, 50 cycles AC in Tokyo.
Banks
Hours are 10—3 weekdays, 10—noon Saturdays, closed all holidays.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION Japan National Tourist Organization 2-13 Yuraku-cho (tel: 216-1901); Tourist Information Centers, Yuraku-cho, Chiyoda-ku (tel: 502-1461). Airport Terminal Building, Ota-ku, Tokyo (tel: 741 -6371).
FURTHER READING
In addition to the Pan Am publications mentioned above The New Official Guide to Japan (Japan Travel Bureau Inc., Tokyo) is recommended.
TOURS ON TAPETO KYO	THE BEST WAY TO SEE
Here's a great new way to see Tokyo — our Tokyo Tour on Tape, one in a series of handy little cassettes that tell you all about the wonderful sights you're going to see. They're a big help in planning your trip and are an ideal talking guide while you're sightseeing. There are walking tours, driving tours, city tours and country tours. Tours on Tape fit into any standard machine and cost just $4.95. Locations covered in the series are:	
London	Hong Kong/Kowloon
English Countryside	Tokyo
Paris	El Morro Fortress
Versailles/	(also available in
Fontainebleau	Spanish)
Rome	Puerto Rico
Amsterdam	(also available in
Brussels	Spanish)
Frankfurt/Heidelberg	New York City —
Berlin (also available	5 Tours*
in German)	New York City*
Hawaii	Washington, DC* San Francisco*
* Also available in Spanish, French, German and Italian. To get these wonderful guides, stop in at any Pan Am office or return the order form with this map.	