• ve ef^ectiVT,uS-
ring ^ w«,8rl” colorful xllus
Preparing folder or a .,in&s to ,rOlî0dll.etterhead f« ™ a tas. *«
sut.‘V ."«•°”
-—“".i « ÏS1.« “S “
-*rr. ts «”«
cr*	r«5KS«««
lf of *6 above «ateme"V^T*ousands of effective tull	simpty by ^ available
nomalpr<wot"na‘Siate‘blanks altea y
message	on	the	appr	P
c-r, m pan Am.
\lcvc*>n°""'
When
to prepare or ‘adapt’ promotional materials personalized to your agency or tour is often readily apparent. Travel Agents and Tour Operators utilize such materials for tours and charter promotion, bulletins, fare announcements, seasonal or destination promotions, rack distributions and numerous other applications.
Building your agency ‘image’ may call for mailing or handout distribution where it’s almost a must to have ‘your own’ material. Indeed, any time that a tour-opera-tor-supplied brochure seems unsuitable for your agency identification, the relatively small cost of imprinting your message on a Pan Am ‘blank’ makes it worth considering, when the carrier is Pan Am.
Where
you distribute your agency’s ‘personal’ promotion depends on how actively you wish to promote. At the
very least, you probably want to have pieces in your office racks for browsing customers to read and take along... pieces that reflect well on the professionalism of your agency. Mailings to clients and prospects are a “must” for promotionally-aware agents and operators.
Why
not gain the full advantage of having your own sales promotion materials, each clearly identified as your agency’s folder or letter? Much of a Travel Agent’s business is built on the faith his clients have in his agency’s acumen and stability. A well-designed, quality travel folder is effective evidence... and in addition, makes it immediately clear that your agency should be called or visited.
"How”
is what this folder is about. The steps to successful sales promotion for your Travel Agency can be just this simple:
Step 1 — Start with a program you want to promote, but which does not provide the sales promotion materials you want. Decide what you need... a multiple page folder, or a simpler one-page flyer or letter.
Step 2 — Choose the Pan Am shell folder or letterhead which you feel most appropriate. (There is a wide choice, covering almost every likely destination around the world.)
Step 3 — Order the desired quantity of folders or letterheads through your Pan Am representative. If you prefer, you can just phone your order directly to your local Pan Am sales office, or return the attached order form.
Steps 4,5,6—These steps are the writing, type selection, and printing of the folder, flyer or letter. Depending on your talents and available time, you may be able to do much of the creative work yourself. If you don’t feel qualified, your printer may know of writers available on a free-lance basis who’ll be glad to tackle your project ... and will include type selection in his printing service. In some areas, there are agencies who will handle the complete creative job for a reasonable fee.
(The othersideofthis page isatear-outorder form foryour convenience.)
DR-1075-50
low-budget
Travel Agency Promotion
forhigh-profi _____________operation