The white pagoda overlooks the fine natural harbor that has made Hong Kong an important transshipment port and gateway between East and West.
can get wonderful bargains in British woolens from the importers and oriental clothing.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing, soccer, tennis.
SPORTS ... At the numerous beaches available, there’s good swimming June through October, tennis (arrangements can be made for the use of courts at some clubs), golf by arrangement with the club.
THEATERS . . . Chinese opera in Cantonese.
TIME ... 16 hours later than the United States Pacific Coast Time. Daylight Saving Time is observed April 15 through October 15.
TIPPING ... 10 or 15 per cent.
TRANSPORTATION. . . Motor cars, rickshaws, tram cars, sedan chairs, buses, transport coolies, and lorries. Frequent and reliable ferry service between Kowloon and downtown Hong Kong.
WHAT TO BUY .. . Because the port of Hong Kong is free of import duty on everything except liquor and tobacco, it is much cheaper to buy things here—French perfumes, clothing, items not prohibited. See customs regulations and shops and stores.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . For summer, clothing should be as light as possible. Sun shades and shady hats will be comfortable, too. A top coat may be required during the winter months.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING...
Hong Kong... A visit to such districts as Sai Ying Pun and Wanchai is fascinating. Here are the “ladder streets,” narrow lanes with steep flights of stairs and typically Chinese markets. On Cotton Street you can get bargains in woolen, cotton goods, real and artificial silk. There are curio dealers in this district, tailors, grocers and restaurants. There are open-air book shops where you see Chinese ranging from small tots looking at picture books to adults poring over books of learning. You should try to visit the Tiger Balm Garden and take a drive through the beautiful residential district. The reservoirs in Hong Kong are well worth seeing. The Government started the construction in 1851, the first in the colony.