Hong Kong has four very popular bathing beaches. Repulse Bay can be reached from Hong Kong in 20 minutes by car. The Lido on Repulse Bay Beach is also popular. Another beach resort is Shek-0 in the old village of Dragon’s Back Peninsula. Deep Water Bay and Big Wave Bay also have splendid bathing beaches. The fishing village of Aberdeen is one of the most picturesque places in Hong Kong. Interesting junks gather here by the hundreds. The natives here are descendants of the pirates who made Hong Kong dreaded by peaceful traders. Take a ride on the Peak Tram to the top of Hong Kong’s peak. Visit also the Chinese temples and other historical sites in Hong Kong.
New Territories. . . Consist of 355 square miles leased from China on the mainland; terrace farming and typical Chinese villages afford an interesting drive which takes about 3V2 hours including stops for pictures and lunch. Many of these points of sightseeing interest are covered in tours available from the numerous tour agencies.
Macao. . . Macao, Colony of Portugal is on the Peninsula of Chung Shan, Kwangtung. Macao is called the Monte Carlo of the Orient. Many tourists visit this city, which is a mixture of new and old Chinese, Portuguese, and Spanish. Daily boat service makes the trip in about 3 hours. Staterooms are available. The streets are lined by fine old trees and there are interesting gambling houses.
There are many points of interest to foreign visitors in this small colony: the Praya Grande, the grotto of the poet Carnoes, where there is a bronze bust of Portugal’s immortal poet. It is believed that it was at this spot the poet was inspired to write some cantos of his well-known poem, “The Luisades.” There are many Chinese temples to be seen here; beautiful gardens; the Guia Lighthouse, the oldest on the China Coast; the famous façade of the Cathedral of St. Paul, which is centuries old; Penha Hill; the Barrier Gate between this colony and the Chinese territory. Take in the Avenida Almeida Ribeiro, the main shopping center of Macao. Kwan Yin Tong, the Temple of the Goddess of Mercy, is where the first treaty between the United States and China was signed in 1844. Lin Fung Miu is another ancient Chinese temple, as well as the Ma Kok Miu, Temple of A-Ma, after whom Macao is named. (Macao was formerly known as A-Ma.)
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged form, only one of 89 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
Clipper and New Hotizons, Trade-Marks, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
IOM.5.59