FOOD . . . Excellent European and Chinese food are available in Elong Kong. No other city can oifer such varieties combined with exquisite taste. The Chinese have been famous for centuries for their cooking, and their methods have been handed down from generation to generation. Some of their principal dishes are: fried rice, sweet-and-sour pork, sharkfin soup, birdnest soup, suckling pig, sweet almond cream, and hundreds more. Many northern delicacies such as Szechuan and Peking duck are available. Milk is safe to drink.
GAMBLING. . . Hong Kong has no casinos, but there is a wonderful race track at Happy Valley with pari-mutuel betting.
LANGUAGE . . . The official language is English, but the city is populated almost entirely by Chinese. Cantonese is heard mostly on the street. English, however, is readily understood in hotels, restaurants, and shops. In Chinese, Hong Kong means fragrant harbor.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Laundry is good. Dry cleaning is satisfactory but should be watched. Be sure your room-boy understands clean not wash if you want something dry cleaned.
LIQUOR . .. All drinks are available at moderate prices. Chinese prefer locally produced rice wine, which they drink warm.
MEDICAL FACILITIES... Excellent. The University of Hong Kong, Matilda Hospital, Queen Mary Hospital and St. Paul’s Hospital all have excellent equipment. Both British and Chinese doctors.
MOTION PICTURES . . . Numerous first-class air-conditioned theaters in the city show first-run American films. A few theaters show locally made Chinese films which would be of interest to tourists.
MUSIC . . . Native music can be heard at performances of Chinese opera, which runs constantly. Hong Kong has a choral group and a symphony orchestra composed of amateur musicians.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . Champagne Room, Gaddi’s, Paris, Maxim’s, Paramount and Marco Polo Room; all have excellent Filipino orchestras. Don’t always expect a floor show.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . All types of cameras and film are available. Kodak supplies are available at Edinburgh House.
RELIGION. . . Church of England and Roman Catholic churches; most American Protestant missions represented; Jewish synagogue.
RESTAURANTS. .. Some of the best are the Parisian Grill, French and Russian dishes; Dairy Farm for ice cream, sodas; Jimmy’s Kitchen for steaks, and Cingles, American style; Champagne Room, with music; Tai Tung and Kam Ling, Cantonese style; Mandarin Room, Goldfish, Princess Garden, Peking style; and Winter Garden for Szechuan or Shanghai style. Continental food at Gaddi’s and Lido or Repulse Bay Hotel. Others include Café de Paris, Kowloon Restaurant, Maxim’s. Seafoods at floating restaurants in Aberdeen.
SHOPS AND STORES... Bargaining is a must everywhere you go whether in large stores or small corner shops catering to tourist trade. Chinese and Indian merchants enjoy it more than you do. You will find linens and embroidered articles on On Lan Street; carved camphorwood boxes, ivories on Queen’s Road, East; silks, smoking jackets, lingeries, carved rosewood beads on Wyndham Street. You