General Information
ON CONDUCTED TOURS RATES INCLUDE:
AIR TRANSPORTATION: Trans-Atlantic transportation from New York on "The Rainbow” Pan American World Airways tourist service. The rates are based on airline tariffs in effect on Jan. 15, 1954.
LAND TRANSPORTATION: Second class rail and private motorcoach used on the continent, third class rail in England and first class on local steamers except on Bergen Steamship Line where tourist class is used.
TOUR DIRECTOR: A Tour Director is in charge throughout the land portion of the tour. Local guides are used for sightseeing.
HOTELS: Rooms provided with twin beds, two persons to a room. Satisfactory, moderate-priced hotels provided. Rooms with private bath in Paris. Tours 408 and 409 use superior hotels.
MEALS: Three meals per day according to the custom of the country. In Paris and London lunches are omitted.
SIGHTSEEING: Sightseeing as indicated by motorcoach, English speaking guides, admission fees, taxes.
TRANSFER AND BAGGAGE: Transfers between city-terminals and hotels. Limit of one suitcase, size limit 10 x 15 x 28. A small overnight bag to be cared for by the passenger may also be taken. By air free baggage weight 44 lbs. on Tourist Service.
GRATUITIES: Tips included to hotel waiters and porters.
NOT INCLUDED ARE: Passport fee, meals which are not provided on tour program, nor food and drink not on regular menu, nor transfers from airfields to city terminals on all services.
-------= RESPONSIBILITY
TRANSMARINE TOURS and its agents act only in the capacity of agent for the passengers in all matters relating to travel, whether by railroad, motor car, steamship, airplane, boat, or any other means, and as such holds itself free of responsibility for any delay, loss, or accident occasioned by fault or negligence of any person or company entrusted with such service or from whatever cause. No carrier shall have or incur any responsibility or liability to any person taking the tour, except its liability as a common carrier. The liability of the carriers for baggage or other property accompanying passengers is limited to their liability as a common carrier. We reserve the right to change any arrangement herein set forth should conditions necessitate, offering substitutes of equal value or to cancel the operation of any scheduled tour. Baggage or Accident Insurance is recommended. No responsibility can be assumed for refund of transportation costs. The right is reserved to decline to accept or retain any persons as members of the tours, in which case full or equitable amount will be refunded. Rates and schedules subject to change without notice. No refund for less than two consecutive full days’ absence from a tour.
Pan American World Airways System is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passenger ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
Jan. '54 - 7M - Printed in U.S.A.	«^^>283
GUILD OF STUDENT TRAVEL TO
EUROPi
1954 PROGRAM OF CONDUCTED TOURS




AW-
V,A PA/V ÂMERÎCA/V
‘‘THE RAINBOW”-PAN AM’S POPULAR TOURIST SERVICE
Venice, Italy—"Gem of the Adriatic”
Foreword
For its thirteenth European season the Guild of Student Travel is making an important innovation,—land travel by deluxe motorcoach, a mode of transportation increasingly favored by tourists in recent years. It affords a more intimate view of the countryside, allows pleasant stops for lunch and avoids many of the traditional annoyances of travel, such as confusion of porters and luggage at stations, inconvenient train connections, etc.
The hotels we use are notably better than are generally provided for student tours.
Round trip Trans-Atlantic transportation from New York is provided on Pan American World Airways "The Rainbow” popular Tourist Service. Your giant Clipper flies in the smooth air high above the weather, with comfortable reclining seats and fine complimentary meals enroute. You can really relax knowing that you are in the dependable hands of the World’s Most Experienced Airline.
The leaders of our parties are the best we know or know of. They are all men and women of wide experience in Europe, who are familiar with the languages of the countries visited and are devoted to young people and their interests.
In the last three years, beside many individual bookings, we have had groups from Yassar, Syracuse University, Connecticut Teachers College, Western College for Women, University of Wisconsin, University of Mississippi, Rutgers University, Brooklyn College, Ohio State University, Dickinson College, New York State Teachers College (Albany), Barnard College.
The Guild of Student Travel is in charge of B. W. Van Riper, Ph.D. as Executive Secretary. It is a Division of Transmarine Tours, Inc.
RELIABILITY
Transmarine Tours, Inc., was established in 1936. The firm is a leading operator of world-wide tours and is a bonded agent of transportation lines by air, land and sea. A member of the American Society of Travel Agents and the Conference of Tour Operators, it is universally recognized as a dependable and efficient travel organization.
BONDED AGENTS
Trans-Atlantic Passenger Conference Trans-Pacific Passenger Conference Rail Travel Promotion Agency International Air Transport Association