GERMANY
Netzkarten (for the whole railroad network) and regional Bezirkskarten offer travel within a regional district at discount prices up to one week or one month. The railroad’s Tourenkarten can be used in connection with another railroad ticket (issued for more than 124 miles only). The Tourenkarten allows 10 days- unlimited travel at 25DM for one person, 35DM for two, and 45DM for a family. There is also a good long-distance express bus linking all cities. Roads are excellent, and the extensive freeway network (Autobahnen) is well equipped with rest facilities, hotels, restaurants, and garages. Germany’s national airline Lufthansa links major cities, and Pan Ain’s Inter-German service flies between Hamburg, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Berlin, Nuremberg, and Munich.
FOOD AND RESTAURANTS
Germans are enthusiastic eaters, and their great delight is in rich cakes and desserts with plenty of fresh whipped cream. German sausage, from the dozens of different types of salami (Wurst) to the famous frankfurter, Sauerbraten (pickled pot-roast), and Gänsebraten (roast goose) are found everywhere, but many of the best dishes are regional. Hamburg is renowned for its smoked eels, and eel soup is a delicious concoction including mussels, oysters, lobster, fish, and plums, according to the season. Labskaus, a mash of beef, potatoes, onions, and herring and Eintopf, meat and vegetable stew, are two other popular W est German dishes. The Black Forest specializes in smoked ham and bacon and has the best trout in the country. It is also the home of Schwarzw'dlder Kirschtorte, a flan of morello cherries, chocolate sponge cake, and cream. Westphalian ham is well known. Bavaria is the home of liver dumpling soup, roast pork with potato dumplings, and Apfel Strudel. Kasseler Rippchen is smoked pork. Swabians like their Spätzle and Maultaschen, made of dough and served with fried onion and cheese. The best cheese comes from Mainz, Munster, Lüneburg, and the Harz mountains. Around Wiirzburg, bakers’ shops sell small fried fish with bread and wine. Berlin Eisbein is pickled or boiled pigs’ knuckle with Sauerkraut, and Berlin doughnuts are famous. Breakfast is eaten from 7-10; lunch 12-3; and dinner from 6-10. Dinner for one in an expensive restaurant costs from US$20, in a moderate one US$5-10, and in an inexpensive one US$3-5.
DRINKING TIPS
Imported liquor is available, but with the exception of whisky (average price US$3 per glass) the local brews are hard to beat. Germany’s many fine wines include the famous Rhine and Moselle, and the excellent beer (light and dark) is best in Bavaria and Franconia. In Berlin Weisse mitt Schuss is a light beer with raspberry syrup. Liquor can be cherry-(Kirsch), raspberry- (Himbeer), or juniper-based (Steinhäger). Schnaps is a potent liquor. The minimum drinking age is 18, but otherwise there are no restrictions. Beer is popularly drunk in beer-cellars or beer restaurants (Bierstuben), and local wines taste their best in wine-restaurants, inns, and taverns. Town halls generally have Ratskeller