GERMANY
the 18th century. The city is also renowned for its “Beautiful Madonnas,” Medieval sculptures in the Gothic Cathedral, with its 14th-century stained-glass windows, in St Mary of the Lily Church, and in the Schnütgen Museum. Medieval German painting can be seen in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum. Even older than the Cathedral are Cologne’s Romanesque Churches, including St Severinus, with a 4th-century shrine, and St. Pantaleon, with a fine rood-screen. TheGiirzenich, a 15th-century Gothic dance-hall, still performs the same function. The Hohe Strasse and Schildergasse are pedestrian shopping district, and the Ring is an elegant boulevard of shops, cafés, cinemas, and nightclubs. An attractive view of the spires and belfries fronting the Rhine is seen from the Severinus Bridge, and there is a good view over the old town from the Rhine Park (concerts and dancing). In Cologne stay at the INTER • CONTINENTAL COLOGNE, Helenen-strasse 14 (from US$80 double); the Ambassador, Barbarossaplatz 4a (from US$54 double CP); or the Excelsior Hotel Ernst, Domplatz (from US$75 double CP). Excellent restaurants are Die Bastei on the river in Konrad Adenauer Ufer; Kuckuck (Olvmpiaweg 2, Miingersdorf) in the city forest; Im Stapelhauschen, Fischmarkt 1-3, the Hanse-Stube in the Excelsior Hotel; and the Schultheiss am Ring (Theodor-Heuss-Ring 23). Regionally typical: Mohr-Baedorf; Friih am Dom; and Malzmuhle. There are wine restaurants in the Alter Markt and Heumarkt areas.
Aachen (Aix-la-Chapelle), less than 50 miles from Cologne, is a noted spa. The hot springs were popular in pre-Roman times. Charlemagne made Aachen an imperial city, and 30 princes were crowned in the cathedral, which still houses his marble throne. Do not miss the superb treasury. Hotels in Aachen are: Parkhotel Quellenhof (Monheimsalle52), double rooms from US$62 CP, and the Kurhotel Schwertbad (Burtscheider Markt), double rooms from US$48. South of Aachen are Monschau a well-preserved town of half-timbered, steep-roofed houses, and Trier, former capital of the Roman Empire in the west, with its famous Porta Nigra. The Rhine flows down from the Swis Alps into a great plain and then beyond Mainz twists between high, vine-covered hills. Along its 820 miles, every islet, rock, and castle has a romantic legend attached to it, the most famous being those of the Lorelei and the Nibelungen. There are daily river cruises (3-10 hours) between Bingen and Rüdesheim to Koblenz, and longer cruises down the Rhine to Basle, lasting up to 5 days.
BONN
There is a bus from Koln-Wahn Airport which takes you to Bonn from Cologne. Gateway to the Rhine Valley, Bonn was until 1949 a quiet university city. It is rapidly adjusting to its new role as capital of Federal Germany. Parliament and the Federal Council meet in the Bundeshaus, overlooking the Rhine. The suburb of Bad Godesberg, an 18th-century spa, is the government and diplomatic quarter. Beethoven was born in Bonn in 1730. His birthplace at Bonngasse 20 is now a museum, and an annual Beethoven Festival is held in modern Beethovenhalle. The