GERMANY
university occupies the baroque Elector’s Palace, which is linked by the tree-lined Poppelsdorfer Allee to Poppelsdorf Castle. The Collegiate Church has 12th-century towers and beautiful cloisters of the same period. Beneath the towering Alter Zoll bastion is an attractive promenade along the Rhine to the Bundeshaus. Good restaurants are Maternus (Bad Godesberg, Post-strasse 3) and Chez Loup (Oxfordstrasse 18). Across the Rhine are the Siebengebirge (Seven Mountains), the most famous of which is Drachenfels, where Siegfried supposedly killed the dragon. Hotels in Bonn are:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Am Tulpenfeld, Heussallee 2-10 (from $65 CP)
Bristol, Poppelsdorfer Allee (from $70 CP)
Godesberg Hotel, Auf dem Berg 1 (from $53 CP), in Bad Godesberg Schlosspark-Hotel, Venusbergweg 27-31 (from $46 BB) Steigenberger, Am Bundeskanzlerplatz (from $69 CP)
All hotels listed above are in central Bonn unless otherwide indicated.
STUTTGART
Although this is an industrial center (Mercedes cars, printing and publishing houses), wine grapes are harvested within 300 yards of Stuttgart’s main station.
AIRPORT INFORMATION
Stuttgart Airport (Pan Am tel. 7901341) has a duty-free shop open daily and is 9 miles from the city. Bus fare is 4DM, taxi about 25DM. Porters charge 1DM per bag and expect a 50-pfennig tip. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car desk (tel: 7901505).
ACCOMMODATIONS
Hotels in Stuttgart:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Am Schlossgarten, Schillerstrasse 23 (from $65 CP)
Steigenberger Hotel Graf Zeppelin, Bahnhofsplatz 7 (from $70 CP) Stuttgart International, Plieninger Strasse 100 (from $70 CP)
All hotels listed above are in central Bonn unless otherwide indicated.
EATING AND ENTERTAINMENT
For gourmet cuisine, try Alte Post (Friedrichstrasse 43); Graf Eberhard (in the Rathaus); and Alte Kanzlei (Schillerplatz 5A). Opera and ballet companies in Stuttgart have international reputations.
WHAT TO SEE
Located among hills near the Black Forest, Stuttgart is the gateway to an attractive countryside dotted with spas and recreational areas. In the Old Town square, the Schillerplatz, are the Altes Schloss (old castle), housing an interesting local museum, and the Gothic Collegiate Church. The Schillerplatz, also flanked by a former princely residence and Royal