GERMANY
EATING AND ENTERTAINMENT
The best hotel restaurant is in the Vier Jahreszeiten in the Inter* Continental. First-class restaurants are Humplmayr Maximiliansplatz 16—tel: 220447); Schwarzwälder Naturweinhaus (Hartmannstrasse 8—tel: 227216), with good game and trout; St. Hubertus Stuben (Grünwalderstrasse 9), specializing in game; and Tantris (Johann-Fichte-Strasse 7—tel: 362061). Less expensive are two by the cathedral: Nürnberger Bratwurstglöckl (Am Frauenplatz 9—tel: 220385) and Schwabinger Weinschatulle (Theresien-strasse 72—tel: 287160). Wine taverns with reasonably priced food include Pfälzer Weinprobierstube, in the Residenz (entrance Residenzstrasse 1—tel: 225628), and the 16th-century Weinstadl (Burgstrasse 5). Many restaurants have Bavarian music in the evening, and lusty singing is the traditional accompaniment to drinking in the large cellar-like beerhalls, the most famous of which is the Augustiner Keller (Arnulfstrasse 52—tel:594393). Well-known bands perform at the nightclub at the Bayerischer Hof Hotel, and the Yellow Submarine at the Holiday Inn features live sharks. Yodeling and Schuhplattler dancing are attractions at Platzl Restaurant. Munich has a State Opera House, several concert halls, and 22 theaters. The Marionettentheater and Puppentheater have puppet shows. The Cuvillifes Theater stages ballet, concerts, and plays. The Oktoberfest Fair begins in September with a big parade. Fasching, an annual pre-Lenten Bavarian Carnival, starts with the New Year and lasts until Lent.
WHAT TO SEE
Marienplatz is the heart of town, and the nearby Neuhauserstrasse, Theatinerstrasse, and Sonnenstrasse are the main shopping areas. Antique shops are centered around Ottostrasse, by Maximilianplatz. The most famous of Munich’s many museums and art galleries is the Alte Pinakothek, with an outstanding collection of European paintings. Other museums include the German Museum, National Museum of Bavaria, the City Museum with puppets and musical instruments, and the German Brewery Museum. The Residenz has fine displays of porcelain and a remarkable chapel treasury. Leopoldstrasse, lined with terraced caffes, leads into Schwabing, the students’ and artists’ quarter, where it becomes an open-air market. The best buildings in the city are the Rathaus in Marienplatz, where the Glok-kenspiel figures perform dialy at 11am, and the Gothic Frauenkirche, a block away, with two onion-shaped domes. Nymphenburg, the baroque summer palace of Bavarian Kings, is a streetcar ride from the city center. Its splendid apartments are open to the public, and concerts are given here in summer. Among the lakes and streams of the magnificent park are set small castles and pavilions, and the small 200-year-old Nymphenburg Porcelain factory is here. Just out of town is Hellabrunn Zoo, the largest in Europe, and to the north is Schleissheim Castle, with regal rooms and galleries and a large selection of paintings.
The German Alps extend some 150 miles from Lake Constance in the