GERMANY
(town hall cellars) where councilmen in the Middle Ages did their eating and drinking. These cellars serve special brews and good food, and remain old-fashioned or even medieval in decor today.
ENTERTAINMENT
Germans are among the most actively culture-conscious people in the world, and even small towns have their own repertory theaters and orchestras. All major cities have permanent opera companies, most with ballet companies attached. Among the most important musical events are the Wagner Festival at Bayreuth in July and August, and the Wiesbaden International Festival in May. June brings the Mozart Festival at W'urzburg and the beginning of the Augsburg season open-air opera and operatta, which runs through July. For a month from early July there is the Munich Opera Festival.
SHOPPING
Best buys are cameras (Zeiss, Leica, Rollei); binoculars; Dresden, Meissen, and Rosenthal porcelain; cuckoo clocks, wood carvings, and handmade crystal from Bavaria; silver and steelware, toys, dolls, and antiques. An inexpensive gift is a beer Stein, made of pewter or clay. Shopping hours are 8 or 8:30-6:30 Mon-Fri, until 2pm on Sat, except until 6pm the first Saturday of every month. Some shops close for lunch. Major stores pack and ship, and foreign visitors will not be charged the 11$ VAT (value-added-tax) on goods sent directly out of the country.
SPORTS
Soccer is the most popular spectator sport, but others include field hockey, ice-hockey, cycling, polo, boxing, and wrestling. Darby Week in Hamburg is the major horse-racing event (June), and in July there is a Horse-racing Week at Bad Harzburg. The motor-racing Grand Prix is in July. Kiel Week (June) attracts yachting enthusiasts. With more than 300 winter resorts in the German Alps, the Harz Mountains, the Black Forest, and the Bavarian forest, winter sports are popular.
FRANKFURT
AIRPORT INFORMATION
The Frankfurt-am-Main Airport (tel: 6901), which has a duty-free shop and children’s nursery, is 8 miles away from the city terminal and reached by taxi (about 25DM) or a fast train service operating about every 30 minutes (1.20DM). Porters charge 1DM for the first bag and 80 pfennigs for additional luggage and expect a tip of 50 pfennigs. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car has an office at the airport (tel: 6905237).
ACCOMMODATION
Hotels in Frankfurt:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Arabella-Hotel, Lyoner Strasse 44-48 (from $65CP), 3 miles southwest of center of town