GERMANY
Chancellery, is used as a vegetable and flower market Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. In the Schlossgarten park are the baroque Neues Schloss (new castle), the modern State Parliament House, a theater, and an opera house. Stuttgart has a tradition of avant-garde architectural design, and the Liederhalle, a concert hall complex, is one of its best. Daimler-Benz, the oldest automobile factory in the world, is in the Unterturkheim suburb and has an interesting museum.
The Black Forest, extending 40-60 miles west of Stuttgart to Kalsruhe, Freiburg, and Basel, and so called because of its dense coniferous woodlands, is really a mountain massif with valleys. Many of its sparkling streams have curative value, and it is a delightful area of wide-roofed houses, colorful costumes peculiar to each valley, and colorful festivals. The most important of the many spa resorts is luxurious Baden-Baden, also a popular starting-off point for scenic drives through the Black Forest. The Baden Wine Road and the Black Forest High Boad leading through picturesque small villages are both well marked.
HAMBURG
This city came to prominence in the 13th century as a member of the Hanseatic league and is today a major European port with an unusual degree of sophistication.
AIRPORT INFORMATION
Fuhlsbüttel Airport (tel: 5081), with a duty-free shop and hotel reservations counter, is 7h miles from the Central Bus Station. From the airport into the town center is 4.50DM by bus or about 20DM by taxi. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car desk (tel: 508305).
ACCOMMODATIONS
Hotels in Hamburg:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Alster Hof, Esplanade 12 (from $58 CP)
Ambassador, Heidenkampsweg 34 (from US$65)
Atlantic, An der Alster 72 (from $100), on Alster Lake Berlin, Borgfelder Strasse 1-9 (from $69)
Central Hotel Smolka, Isestrasse 98 (from $57)
INTER • CONTINENTAL HAMBURG, Fontenay 10 (from $81), on Alster Lake
Norge, Schäferkampsallee 49 (from $42)
Parkhochhaus, Drehbahn 15 (from $52)
Prem, An der Alster 9 (from $52), on Alster Lake Reichshof, Kirchenallee 34-36 (from $59 CP)
Vier Jahreszeiten, Neuer jungfernsteig 9-14 (from $95)
All hotels listed above are in central Hamburg unless otherwise indicated.