GERMANY
Old, and Big Eden) on Kurfürstendamm and Damaschkestrasse; Kesse (Ernst-Reuter-Platz) and Palais Madame (Nürnberger Strasse), where ladies ask gentlemen to dance; Chez Nous (Marburgerstrasse 14) specializing in transvestite shows; and the Rheinische Winzerstuben (Hardenbergstrasse 29a), with a Rhine panorama show. The Berlin Festival begins in September and the International Book Fair in November. In January there is the Press Ball. The Berlin Film Festival is held June-July and Berliner Jazz Days in November.
WHAT TO SEE
West Berlin is notable for its greenery (only one-third of its area is built up) and East Berlin for its old historic center and museums. Kurfürstendamm (Ku’damm), with its Kaiser Wilhelm memorial church, is the main thoroughfare of West Berlin, lined with luxury hotels, shops, cafe, and cinemas. Behind the church are the Zoo and Tiergarten, a great park extending as far as the Berlin Wall. Of the few surviving old buildings, the most notable are Charlottenburg Castle, the 18th-century Brandenburg Gate (just inside the Eastern sector), the reconstructed Reichstag, and the Rathaus Schöneberg, seat of the Senate, where the Libert)' Bell is rung at noon. Important museums include the Egyptian Museum, with the famous bust of Nefertiti; Museum Dahlem, with 13th-to 16th-century paintings including famous Rembrandts and Vermeers; the Berlin Museum, \Vhere the collection depicts the development of the city; and the New National Gallery designed by Mies van der Rohe. The Olympic Stadium, constructed for the 1936 games, holds 100,000 people. In the western suburbs are the forest and lake areas of the Grünewald and the Havel inlets which open out into the Wannsee, crowded with bathers in summer. Sightseeing tours of West and East Berlin and along the sector border are organized by Severin und Kühn (Berlin 15, Kurfürstendamm 215-216) and Berolina (Berlin 15). Excursion parties go to Potsdam in the German Democratic Republic to visit Frederick the Great’s Palace of Sans Souci, with its great art treasures, and to the ancient Cecilienhof Palace, once the residence of the Crown Prince, where the Four-Power Agreement was signed in 1945.
DÜSSELDORF
AIRPORT INFORMATION
Düsseldorf-Lohausen Airport (tel: 4211) is 5 miles from Eriedrich-Ebert-Strasse and is served by bus or S-Bahn (1.50DM). Pay porter 50 pfennigs per bag. Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car desk (tel: 4216499)
ACCOMMODATIONS
Hotels in Düsseldorf:
Rates are in US$ for a double/twin room with bath or shower
Breidenbacher Hof, Heinrich-Heine-Allee 34 (from $100 CP) Düsseldorf Hilton, Georg-Glock-Strasse 20 (from $110), near airport Eden, Adersstrasse 29-31 (from $61 CP)