GERMANY
EATING AND ENTERTAINMENT
The culinary accent is on fish, and a particular delight of the city are the little Austernstuben, oyster rooms where this delicacy and other shellfish snacks are the usual accompainment to wine. Good fish restaurants include Colin (Brodschrangen 1—tel: 324769); Schumanns Austemkeller (Jungfernstieg 34—tel: 345328); and Fischerhaus (St Pauli-Fischmarkt 14—tel: 314053). International cuisine at Vier Jahreszeiten, Atlantic and Inter • Continental hotels, and Peter Lembcke (Holzdamm 49—tel: 243290). Good local food is served at Gustay Adolf (Grosse Bleichen 32— tel: 341944); Zum Kronprinzen (Kirchenallee 46—tel: 243258); and Landhaus Walter in the Stadtpark (Hindenburgerstrasse 2—tel: 2790631). Elegant out-of-town restaurants on the Elbe are Jacob at Niedstedten, Süllberg Gaststatte at Blankensee, and Schulaure Fährhaus at Schulau. Hamburg’s nightlife, as befits a port, runs the full gamut from the elegant to the dissolute. In the lively St. Pauli quarter, the notorious Reeperbahn and Grosse Freiheit streets, once the haunt only of sailors and prostitutes, now embrace such diverse entertainments as shooting galleries, beat clubs, and a waxworks museum, in addition to the dozens of strip clubs and clip joints. Rendezvous is a nightclub specializing in satirical cabarets located Neuer Wall 54—tel: 371314. International variety is performed at the Hansa-Theater.
SHOPPING
Mbnckebergstrasse has popular department stores. A more fashionable are is around the Rinnenalster. Antique shops are concentrated in the district behind the Gänsemarkt and in the arty Poseldorf quarter. Every Sunday morning in St Pauli there is a colorful Fish Market.
WHAT TO SEE
Hamburg, situated on the Elbe river estuary, is (like Venice) built on piles over water. Take a boat trip from the St Pauli Landungsbrücken for an hour’s ride around the port (60 dock basins). In the city center a broad stretch of water called Aussenalster is also popular for boat trips, sailing, and canoeing and affords a five view of the spires of the town hall and five principal churches.
North from Hamburg is Lübeck, former capital of the Hanseatic League; Travemünde, the most popular of the Baltic coastal resorts; and Kiel, on the canal linking the Baltic to the North Sea.
Hanover, seat of the Royal House of Hanover (related to the British throne) until 1886, is today a center of commerce and industry. The important International Trade Fair is held in April. The Old Town Hall, the Gothic Marktkirche, the 17th-century Ballhof (where the first opera was performed in Hanover in 1672), and a row of half-timbered houses are all that remains of the old part of town.
firemen, the oldest German maritime city, had market rights granted to it in 965. It is the third of the Hanseatic cities, and it began trading with