GERMANY
west to Berchtesgaden near the southeast border with Austria. Skiing begins at Garmisch-Partenkirchen in November with the ice-hockey season, and International Winter Sports Week is held in early January. Communications are excellent despite the high mountains—Zugspitze near Garmisch is nearly 10,000 feet, with cogwheel-railway and cableway services and good mountain roads. The German Alps have many health and thermal spas, such as Oberstdorf, Bad Tolz (a picturesque old Bavarian town), Bad Wiessee, Tegernsee, Schliersee, Ruhpolding, and Berchtesgaden near the beautiful K'onigssee, and are also the the realm of fairytale castles and palaces built by King Ludwig II, Linderhof, Herrenchiemsee, and Neuschwanstein. Masterpieces of baroque building are the Bavarian churches of Schliersee, Ottobeuren, Wieskirchen, and Ettal. Oberammergau with its painted houses and wood-carving workshops is most famous for its Passion Play, first performed in 1634 (next performance 1980):
Nuremberg, 125 miles north of Munich, is a fine medieval city retaining its double fortifications (with 125 towers) and ancient castle. Hans Sachs and the Meistersinger lived in Nuremberg, and in 1526 the first science university in Germany was founded here. Albrecht Diirer’s 15th-century gabled house is now a museum. St Sebald’s Church is rich in 14th- and 15th-century art, and St Lawrence’s has a lovely Annunciation by Veit Stoss. The National Museum has superb collections of fine arts and crafts, including works by D'urer. Culinary specialties are Bratwurst, small grilled sausages, and Lebkuchen, gingerbread. Good restaurants include Goldenes Posthorn (established 1498); Nassauer Keller, in the 13th-century cellar of Nassau House (art collection); and Bohm’s Herrenkeller (Theatergasse 19), with medieval decor. Sausage-houses are Bratwurst-Herzle (Brunnengasse 1) and Bratwurst Hausle (Rathausplatz 1). Beer restaurants: Fischkuche Luftsprung (founded 1516—Unterer Bergauerplatz 10) and Mautkeller (K'onigsstrasse 60).
Places of interest around Nuremberg include Bamberg with a beautiful cathedral, medieval Altdorf Heilbronn with a Gothic Minster (lovely stained glass), rococo Ansbach with its Margrave’s Palace, Coburg with a large fortress, Regensburg (Ratisbon) on the Danube with its cathedral, and the forested Fichtel mountains. At Bayreuth the annual Wayner Festival is held in July and August, in a theater designed by the composer himself.
BERLIN
AIRPORT INFORMATION
Tegel Airport (tel: 41011) is served by city buses for 1.30DM. Taxis charge from 16DM. Tegel has a duty-free shop and nursery. Porters are paid 1DM per bag. Departure tax is 5DM (only for international flights). Pan Am’s World Rent-a-Car desk (tel: 41013308).
ACCOMMODATIONS
Hotels in Berlin: