eluding U.S. cigarettes, are available and not so expensive as in the other capitals of Europe.
CLIMATE... Of a temperate, sub-alpine climate, Austria has approximately the same seasons as New York. However, it rarely becomes either terribly hot or bitingly cold, and the seasons slip gradually into one another without abrupt temperature changes. From late October to mid-December the countryside has heavy rains, but Vienna is always agreeable. In the mountain regions snow begins to fall in mid-November. The air is crisp, clear and cold, but sunny. Spring climate in the mountains makes Austria a skiers’ paradise.
CLUBS . . . Austrian Press Club, P.E.N. Club, Jockey Club, Lions, Rotary. Clubs in the Anglo-American sense are unknown in Austria.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... It is quite usual in Austria to make acquaintances in public places, particularly in the coffee shops, and you may speak freely to the Austrians. The tempo of living in Austria is a bit slower than in the United States, so be patient when exacting personal service. The Austrians are very gracious. Many tourists take to native apparel upon arrival in Austria, but in Vienna the usual international city attire is recommended. Austrians enjoy going to their favorite sidewalk café for coffee and the newspaper.
COMMUNICATIONS ... Telephone, telegraph and cable facilities are fast and reliable in Austria. Airmail is available, although airmail postage is considerably higher than in the U.S.
CURRENCY . . . The schilling is the principal monetary unit in Austria. At any bank 25.65 schillings are given for the dollar, the Austrian schilling being worth about 4 cents.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Except for duty-free limit of 400 cigarettes or 80 cigars or 500 grams of tobacco, 1 bottle of wine, 1 bottle of hard liquor, you may take into Austria anything which is for your personal use. An unlimited amount of dollars may be brought into or taken out of Austria but not more than 10,000 Austrian schillings may be taken out. You need a passport but no visa. Vaccination certificate is necessary for re-entry to the United States.
DRUG STORES ... In some of the drug stores within the first Bezirk of Vienna, foreign products, including American, are available.
St. Wolfgang in Salzburg Province is typical of the charming villages that dot the Austrian countryside.