ELECTRIC CURRENT . . . Almost entirely 220 volts, A.c., although there is still some d.c. current in a few unmodified sections of Vienna. Converters for round-prong plugs are also needed.
FAUNA . . . The vast forest and rock districts of the provinces overflow with prize game. Chamois shooting is a special feature. Stag, marmot, roebuck, and mountain cock all abound. Hunting is good throughout the country, but the shoots of Styria, Tyrol, Vorarl-berg, and the Danube are particularly renowned. All hunting equipment may be rented or brought into the country duty free. As for fishing, the mountain lakes and streams teem with brook, lake and rainbow trout, char, brook-char, pike, pike-perch, and many other fish.
FLORA . . . The lower meadows of Oberinntal, near the Italian border, are rich in the multi-colored carpets of flowers for which the Alps are famous. Throughout the Alps the forests and flowers are strikingly beautiful, especially in the spring.
FOOD . . . Most of the more-popular Austrian dishes are part of international cuisine everywhere—Wiener Schnitzel, goulash, and the various strudels, to name a few. There are numerous other less well-known specialties worth trying, especially dishes with small dumplings. And do not miss the Viennese pastry. Even in the small inns food is served in substantial quantities. A Continental breakfast of coffee and rolls is taken upon arising, with a heartier second breakfast at 10:00 a.m. In Vienna, large towns, and resorts, dinner is from 6:30 p.m., with a light supper after the theater. Afternoon tea, called jause, is served after 4:00 p.m. and consists of sandwiches, pastry, coffee and tea.
GAMBLING . . . There are two large race tracks in the vicinity of Vienna. Casinos are also located in Salzburg, Bad Gastein, Velden, Kitzbuehel and Baden (15 miles from Vienna).
LANGUAGE . . . German is the official language, but English is taught in the high schools. You will have no trouble getting information in English at your hotel or at other places you visit.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . You can have your laundry done quickly and thoroughly, and for little money, by the chambermaid at your hotel. Dry cleaning is fast and good in Vienna, but not so good in the provinces.
LIQUOR . . . Austria is both a beer- and wine-drinking country. The beer is excellent and the wines are wonderful. Vin ordinaire is good and is cheap. The best red wine is Voeslauer, with Klosterneu-burger a close second. But Austria is best known for its white wines, such as Duernsteiner, Gumpoldskirchner, Grinzinger, Nuss-dorfer, Riesling, and Veltliner. Austrian champagne is good. Schnaps, distilled liquors, obtainable in great and potent variety, are also good. Whisky is imported and expensive. Slivovitz, a South-Slav drink distilled from plum juice, is popular and strong. The famous Heurigen-wine of new vintage is served by the wine growers in the backyards of their premises in all the wine-growing areas. Cocktails vary in