RESTAURANTS AND BARS . . . Vienna abounds in wonderful
restaurants, dance-bars and small, smart eating places. Coffee houses are a way of life here. You should dine once in the deep old cellars in the inner city. Try Sacher, Mozart, Carlton, Kremser. The Rathaus-keller is famous, also the Lindenkeller. Another famous keller is the Hofkeller where you can listen to zither music while you eat. The Palais Auersperg, a masterpiece of Baroque building with restaurant, beautiful winter garden, coffee shop and bar, is interesting to see. Best international restaurants are the Drei Husaren, Stadtkrug, Franzis-kaner and the restaurant of the Sacher Hotel. For Balkan food with the zip of music, try the Pataky, Bosna or the Balkan Grill. Other excellent restaurants include St. Stephan, Kerzenstueber, Deutsches Haus, the Weisser Rauchfangkehrer, Liesingerkeller and Schoener. If, after dinner, you would like to drink wine (no food) in one of the oldest kellers in Vienna, visit the Urbani Keller. It’s well worth it.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Stores famous for their leather goods are Popp and Kretschmer, Nigst, Hiess and Foerster, as is the Lanz shop for native costumes. Antiques around Vienna’s famous state-owned pawn-shop Dorotheum. Shooting, fishing and ski equipment may be purchased locally. For smart ready-made dresses try Elegance, Farnhammer, Stone & Blythe and Hoechsmann.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . From January to June there are international ski events at all the major alpine resorts. See sports.
SPORTS . . . Skiing tops the list. It is the national sport of Austria, and her mountains and climate are perfect for it. Skiing huts and lodges dot the countryside, and many fine ski resorts may be found in Austria. Near Salzburg is the Bad Gastein resort with cable car, three ski lifts, jump, and skating rink. The Arlberg resorts west and Kitz-buehel east of Innsbruck are international favorites. The Obergurgl resort offers spring skiing. The St. Anton-am-Arlberg resort is known as “The Ski Capital of the World.” Zuers and Lech have international competitions. Austrian ski schools, trails, runs, and incidental facilities cannot be surpassed. Austria contains over a thousand miles of perfect ski slopes. Hunting and fishing, mountaineering, bicycling and boating are also popular sports in Austria.
For golf the course at Dellach on the Woerthersee in Carinthia (Southern Austria) and Pertisau on the Achen Lake are well known. Tennis is popular; every sizable resort and all Austrian cities have good courts. There are sailing and rowing on all the larger lakes, and the Austrian rivers lend themselves exceptionally well to flatboating. All the lake resorts offer swimming facilities. Opportunities for hiking and climbing are limitless. Trails are carefully marked, and the existence of the hut system and at least one clean, comfortable inn in every village makes it possible to range freely. All mountaineering equipment may be purchased on the spot and professional guides are everywhere available.