price and quality, but are good at the large international bars.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Austrian doctors are generally excellent. Ski resorts have first-aid centers with resident doctors. Inquire at your hotel. Hospital facilities in the larger cities are at prewar level.
MOTION PICTURES. . . Motion picture theaters are to be found in the larger cities. There are a good number in Vienna. Many of the films shown are American or English, but with German sound track.
MUSIC . . . There is music everywhere in Austria. Besides the famous Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra and the Vienna Symphony, there are the equally famous State Opera and the wonderful, gay, light Volksopera. These, however, like the ballet, do not play in Vienna from the middle of July to the first of September. In late July and August there is the world-renowned Salzburg Festival. In recent years, Vienna has come out with its own Spring Music Festival, called Wiener Festwochen, during the first three weeks of June. Also summer and fall peasant festivals are numerous, and most sizable villages have dances on Saturdays. Vienna has for centuries been considered the music capital of the world. From there burgeoned the works of Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Brahms, Gluck, Haydn, Bruckner, Wolf, Mahler, Lanner, the Strausses, and other great artists. The Vienna Philharmonic is world renowned. Dr. Karl Boehm, Hans Knappertsbusch and Rafael Kubelik are the three leading conductors now, but there are many other famous ones. The Vienna State Opera is superb, and the gay Volksopera is not surpassed anywhere in the world. The Vienna Choir Boys are among the leading performers of religious music in the world and can be heard almost every Sunday at the Hofburg Chapel.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . Vienna has everything from swank night clubs with floor shows to fashionable little tanz bars where there is always wonderful music and good wine. However, don’t expect the big shows of Paris. They just don’t exist. The Cobenzl Bar in the Vienna hills is smartest of all. You can dine and dance with the city of Vienna and the Danube spread below you (open only in summer). The Splendid, Eden, Moulin Rouge, Casanova Bar, and Maxim are all good. Vienna specializes in intime small bars with piano players or orchestra. You’ll find them everywhere within the Ring. If you like soul-stirring Gypsy violin music, Kocze Antal’s Monseigneur Bar is a “must.” Among the wine gardens, try Henzl, Maly, Toni or Karas. The native inns in the smaller towns all have bauernstube rooms, handsomely decorated with folk art, where in the evenings there is dancing, singing and congenial company.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . All equipment is available but expensive. Good developing everywhere, including color developing.
RELIGION . . . Austria is predominantly Roman Catholic. Cathedrals, abbeys and churches are numerous and beautiful throughout the country. There are Protestant services in the larger cities.