If you want to look down on Vienna from the crests of the Vienna Woods include the Kahlenberg and Cobenzl in your sightseeing.
From Vienna there is good train service to the other fascinating tourist spots described below. Innsbruck can be reached in about IOV2 hours on a route that takes you to Linz, Salzburg, Kitzbiihel. Styria in the south is reached in about 4 hours.
Innsbruck . . . The ancient and impressive city of Innsbruck in Tyrol is known as the capital of “The Land of the Mountains.” The best way to see Innsbruck is to walk around the city either in the early morning or early evening. In the blocks between the station and the Maria Theresienstrasse is the so-called new town, a section rich in sights, cafés and hotels. If you would like to know Innsbruck, take a tram to the point where the Maria Theresienstrasse becomes the Herzog Friedrichstrasse, a thoroughfare which bisects the old city, the part which was within the walls. There you will find the city moat used long ago, narrow Gothic houses, pointed arcades and wrought-iron signs. The Herzog Friedrichstrasse leads directly to a little cobbled square, the Stadtplatz, which contains the world-famous Goldenes Dachl. The Dachl, a small Gothic balcony three stories high with a steeply pitched gilded roof, is a rich, gleaming wonder. The entire neighborhood of the Dachl, containing several of those fountains for which Innsbruck is famous, is a must for sightseers. Try to visit the rococo parish church of Wilten, and be sure to make a journey on one of the two cable ascents from Innsbruck. One cable railway takes you to the Patscherkofel, the other to the Hafelekar. The entire Tyrol can be seen from there, outspread like a great relief map. Good hotels include the Maria Theresia, and the Kaiser-hof, the new modern Europa and the Tyrol, and ancient inns such as the Goldener Adler, the Goldene Rose and the Stiftskeller. You should visit some of the night places where you will hear native singing and see native dancing. Tyroleans love life and celebrations and music.
Salzburg is the great festival city. Here the world-famous musical event takes place from the last week in July through the month of August. It’s the world’s leading summer musical festival. The city is jammed with musicians and music lovers. The works of the great musical masters, particularly Mozart, are to be heard day and night, played by several orchestras and chamber groups. But Salzburg does not offer music alone. It is one of Austria’s most beautiful cities. Minor, but impressive, mountains surround the town. Riding in fiacres (one-horse open carriages) is a popular and charming feature of Salzburg life.
There are several organized sightseeing tours you can take such as the city-sightseeing and Salzkammergut tour, the tour to Gaisberg-spitze via Gaisbergstrasse (4,218 feet), Grossglockner and Untersberg where Zeppezauer house is located at 5,471 feet.
Places of interest to the visitor are the famous Salzburg Cathedral which is the finest Italianate edifice in Austria. Attending the