Everyman performance in front of the cathedral in the late afternoon is one of the most stirring experiences Europe can offer. It is theater at its most intense. You must see a performance of the Aicher marionettes, which have long toured Europe and won great acclaim. One of their best performances is Faust but their most outstanding is Casperl, the story of the gay befuddled peasant who drinks and has all sorts of improbable adventures. An interesting place is Mozart’s house which is near the Mozarteum, Europe’s most distinguished summer music school, attended by many Americans. For a stay during the Salzburg Festival be sure to arrange your reservations well in advance. You can stop at the famous, charming Go/-o dener Hirsch, the Hotels Stein, Muenchner Hof, Europa or Park-hotel Mirabell, Oesterreichischer Hof, Bristol', or nearby at the Salzburg Cobenzl, the Kaiserhof, or the Schlos Hotel on the Fuschl lake. While in Salzburg, be sure to visit the charming Til Euleñspiegel restaurant, and the Café Bazar, where celebrities, tourists and natives mingle. Don’t miss Schloss Hellbrunn with its water tricks.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION... If you have time to visit	more than	the principal tourist	spots described	here	or
if you wish	to pursue	any special interest,	you would do	well	to
contact the office of the Austrian State Tourist Department located at 11 East 52nd Street, New York 22, New York. There are also offices in London, Paris and Rome. Every city and resort in Austria has its Fremdenverkehrsverein (local tourist office) where all information, folders, maps, etc., may be procured. The hotels and travel agencies will also be helpful to tourists. Just ask your hotel porter for any tickets you may want for special events. You’ll find he can even handle	your ski-lift tickets so you won’t have to wait	in line
on crowded	week ends.	Tourist information	of all kinds as	well	as
tickets for cultural and sports events, exhibitions, fairs and so forth are also available through the Oesterreichisches V erkehrsbuero Friedrichstrasse 7, Vienna 1, or through the Cosmos Travel Agency, Kaerntnerring 15, Vienna 1. Pan American’s offices are at Kaerntnerring 5, Vienna 1 (Tel. 445631) and Makartplatz 1, Salzburg (Tel. 3581).
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged form, only one of 89 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
Clipper and New Horizons, Trade-Marks, Pan American World Airways, Inc. 20M.5.56
Cz,