THEATERS . . . State Opera, Volksopera, Burgtheater, Volksthea-ter, Theater in der Josefstadt. All plays in German only.
TIME . . . Six hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Hotels and restaurants add a 10 per cent service charge to your bill, but tip an extra 10 per cent for special services. Tip 15 per cent in other cases; for luggage about 3 schillings per bag..
TOURIST TAXES . . . All resorts in the provinces charge a small kurtaxe.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are taxis, streetcars, and buses in the larger cities, but taxis are not cheap. Chauffeur-driven and self-drive cars are available. Good train service is maintained within the country. The cable railways up and down and across mountains are remarkable and entirely safe.
WATER . . . Water in Vienna is famous—it comes from mountain springs, coming on aqueducts. You can drink the water anywhere in Austria.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Vienna has rapidly re-established itself as a shopping center. Knitwear, petit point, fine needlework along with the famous leather goods, antiques, crystal and porcelain and jewelry are worthwhile mentioning. Peasant costumes may be bought almost everywhere. Also hunting, fishing, and skiing equipment.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Take with you about the same clothes required for corresponding seasons in New York, but warm clothes are needed for the Alpine evenings, and good, strong shoes always. Even if you do not plan to ski, heavy slacks or ski trousers are suggested for the provinces in winter. You will also need galoshes or fur-lined boots for walking in the provinces in winter. Formal dress may be worn at the opera in Vienna and at the festival in Salzburg. Formal dress is also worn at the more fashionable resort hotels in the evening, but by no means is this a “must,” particularly for men.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Vienna . . . Perhaps for the first sightseeing trip you make in Vienna it would be best to take a standard sightseeing tour around the city. The buses are excellent and modern. Just ask your hotel porter for tickets. This would make it possible for you to plan from there on what you want to see most. Because there is so much of interest to see in Vienna, it is impossible to cover it all unless you plan to stay for some time. Vienna is divided into 23 districts. The inner town, the first district, is the most important. It is surrounded by the Ringstrasse. Each section of the Ringstrasse has a different name. The one in the very center of the city is the Opern Ring, the others are the Schotten, the Karl Lueger, the Dr. Karl Renner, the Burg, the Kaerntner, the Schubert, the Park, and the Stuben Ring. These take in two-thirds of the Old Vienna. The other third is bounded by the Franz Joseph Kai along the Danube Canal. The Opera House, a magnificent structure, is located where the Kaerntnerstrasse, the main shopping dis-