bruck or Salzburg. During the summer, there is air service from Brussels, London and Amsterdam two or three times weekly direct to Salzburg.
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . The inn is a part of native Austrian life. Every village has at least one inn. Throughout Austria these accommodations are clean and comfortable. But there are first-class hotels in most places, which have private baths and excellent food. All large resorts have modern hotels and inns with modern conveniences. The best hotels in Austria generally charge around $7 a day for room, bath and three meals during the height of the season. Many Austrian hotels and inns have that ineffable quality termed “atmosphere.” The historic Goldener Adler in Innsbruck has it, as does the Goldener Hirsch in Salzburg. Then there are the very modern hotels, like the Europa and the Tyrol in Innsbruck, the Parkhotel Mirabell in Salzburg. Other famous hotels include the Schloss in Velden on the Woerthersee, the Bellevue, the Europa in Bad Gastein, and the Gruber in Kindberg. In Vienna, the Sacher, the Bristol, the Grand, Imperial, Park and Krantz-Ambassador are the best hotels; $6 to $10 single, plus about $3.60 for one meal. Among other good hotels are the Astoria, the Kaiserin Elisabeth, the Erzherzog Rainer, the Stieglbraeu, the Regina, Europa and Kummer. Rates at the latter are from $4 a day with bath.
ARTS . . . Vienna’s reputation as an art center is due to its wonderful museums filled with collections by world-famous masters. One should visit the Albertina Museum, which houses a famous collection of the etchings of Raffael, Michelangelo, Titian, the Dutch masters, Rembrandt, and Italian and German primitives. Dürer’s work housed in this museum is one of the world’s outstanding collections. The National Museum of Fine Arts contains priceless collections. Here are represented all the great masters, such as Pieter Breughel and Dürer, the best Velasquez collection outside of Madrid, Rembrandt, Rubens, Holbein, Giorgione, Titian, Moretto, Raffael and Correggio. Don’t miss the Belvedere Picture Gallery and the Vienna Museum of Natural History.
BALLET . . . Famous ballet of the Vienna Opera. The ballet, like the opera and symphony, does not perform in Vienna from the middle of July to the first of September, when they are on tour.
BANKS . . . The Creditanstalt-Bankverein and the Laenderbank are Austria’s principal banks. Other banking institutions include the Hypotheken-und Creditinstitut, the Arbeiter and the Schoeller bank. The American Express Company will cash traveler’s checks and so will the banks and most hotels.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . New Year’s Day; January 6, Epiphany; Easter Sunday and Monday; May 1, State Holiday; 10 days before Whitsun Sunday, Ascension of Christ; Whitsun Sunday and Monday; 10 days after Whitsun, Corpus Christi; August 15, Ascension of Mary; November 1, All Saints’ Day; December 8, Conception of the Holy Virgin; Christmas and December 26, St. Stephen.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO... All tobacco products, in-