
FLY Ï^YJV A3Æ TO
jjermuda
But first see your autfiorl^ed Pan Am Travel Agent
His advice and experience can be invaluable in planning your itinerary and handling the arrangements. Most of his services cost you nothing and he may even help you include more for less money. With his knowledge of Clipper schedules and routings, he can help you take full advantage of the famous low-cost Rainbow service, Pan Am Holiday tours and arrange everything on Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan. So — start planning by visiting him soon.
Or get in touch with your nearest PAA office
Pa/v Am errcam
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE Printed in U. S. A.	D-21
‘«if*»
■*	<*v
^ ?,y
PAN AM
Q ">
nenmiiui



S5¡£2íé--
DR 556-150

Vacation abroad in nearby
Remitida
Some say Bermuda’s an experience rather than a place. Unforgettable, bright, British, glamorous. Yet, thanks to Pan Am Clippers, it’s nearer than many resorts here in the states. And you need no passport or visa, only proof of your U. S. citizenship. Just hours from now you could be relaxing in this gulf stream playground . . . enjoying the thrill of vacationing in a foreign land . . . shopping for wonderful bargains in tweeds, woolens, perfume, silver.
Actually you’re caught up in the excitement of a Bermuda Holiday even before sighting these enchanted islands. There’s the fun of preparation . . . selecting the Pan Am Holiday tour you want . . . choosing your clothes and packing. And finally the elation of taking off in a Pan American Clipper.
Before you know it, you’re gazing down at a chain of coral islands sprawling lazily on an azure sea. Gay cottages, pink, blue and white-roofed, smile up at you . . . curving sandy beaches beckon. Then you step from your Clipper into a greenhouse big as all outdoors . . . literally flooded with brilliant oleanders and poinsettias and lilies, hibiscus and bouganvillea . . . until you can almost feel the fragrance in the warm Bermuda sunshine.
It’s hard to believe it could happen to you — in just three short hours. But it can . . . and it will. . . when you visit Bermuda by Clipper.
Clipper, Sleeperette, New Horizons, Trade-Marks Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. Copyright 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
m'im li
.■pi'***®'
* Jl ÆÉ*