between here and
Bermuda is
Going and coming, the Clipper’s a wonderful way to travel. You whisk along smoothly at more than 5 miles a minute — with never any sensation of height or speed — and no trouble with weather since you fly above it all the way. Pan American is not only the World’s Most Experienced Airline ... it has the most years of experience in flying to Bermuda, and carries more people to and from this lovely coral island than any other airline.
You’ll find the giant 4-engine Clippers luxuriously appointed, with plenty of room in the cabin to move about. Your lounge chair is deep-cushioned, relaxing. And attentive attendants see to your needs, serve you complimentary hot meals and snacks prepared in the spotless galley.
It’s carefree travel at its best. Free of earth-bound annoyances, free of travel ritual that calls for extra clothing, extra luggage, endless tipping. In addition, you’ll find so many congenial friends among your fellow passengers. For more and more people every day are discovering that the carefree way to Bermuda is by comfortable Pan American Clipper.
Daily Clipper Service
You’re able to leave when you want to because Pan Am gives you more Bermuda service to choose from. Daily departures from New York . . . $99, Rainbow service . . . $123, President service. Week-end Rainbow service direct from Boston . . . $99. And now (effective October 1, 1956) there is no transportation tax on your Pan American flight to Bermuda. It’s so easy to go — there’s no need to wait. You can have that longed-for vacation in Bermuda now!
Full-course meals are served fresh and hot from the Clipper’s galley. There’s no extra charge for meals — no tipping either.
The Rainbow
This famous Clipper service brings overseas travel within reach of anyone’s budget because it costs no more than ordinary Tourist service. Yet you enjoy some of Pan Am’s finest and fastest Clippers, comfortable adjustable seats, delicious meals and Pan Am’s outstanding dependability.
You step from your Clipper refreshed and relaxed ready to enjoy all the excitement Bermuda has in store.
The President Week-end Luxury Service
Flights of The President, Pan Am’s great luxury service at regular fare, permit you to leave New York late on Friday afternoon, enjoy dinner aloft, have Friday evening, Saturday and Sunday in Bermuda — or longer if you like, Flights leave Bermuda Sunday evening.
This deluxe President service features fewer passengers, extra attendants, much more room and greater comfort per passenger . . . magnificent 7-course meals, served with champagne or vintage wine . . . Sleeperette accommodations . . . complimentary bar service . . . handy overnight bags . . . and exclusive use of the famous lower deck lounge on Super Stratocruisers.
You’ll find plenty of room to relax in your spacious Clipper cabin.