Pan Am Holidays
On these pre-arranged itineraries you travel independently or in a congenial group, with everything arranged in advance. You know beforehand what everything will cost.
For example, a Pan Am Holiday gives you 7 unforgettable days and 6 starlit nights in Bermuda for less than $150. Included in this surprisingly low rate are your round trip Rainbow fare, delicious meals in flight, transportation from the Bermuda airport, your hotel accommodations and your breakfasts.
You Can Pay Later
If you wish, you can travel to Bermuda now, pay as little as 10% down and spread the balance over 20 months. This is possible because of the popular Pan Am Pay Later Plan. It’s easily arranged through any PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent, with no collateral, and can cover practically all your travel expenses.
In a horse-drawn carriage you’ll see the sights, discover the magic of Bermuda’s moonlight.
Throughout Bermuda you’ll find soft, sandy beaches and cloistered coral-covered coves . . . perfect for picnics, just right for relaxing,
Golf on greens overlooking the Mid-Ocean Club is one of world’s finest and most famous.
Any amount up to $200 worth if you’re out of the U. S. more than 48 hours (only one allowance every 30 days) — an additional $300 if you’re out more than 12 days (only one allowance every six months). You may also ship back gifts valued under $10 duty free. Many do so by Air Parcel Post — it’s quick, easy, sure.
New Horizons
Here’s the perfect Travel Guide for Bermuda — also for 1000 other places on six continents. Its 576 pages tell what to see and wear and bring back . . . where to stay and dine . . . local climate, currency, tipping, laundry facilities, etc. Endorsed by Lowell Thomas and James A. Michener, NEW HORIZONS is now part of the State Department’s Travel Kit for overseas personnel. Only $1.00 at PAA Offices and Travel Agents.
Why is Pan Am So Popular?
You might credit Pan Am’s frequent schedules to all 6 continents, alternate gateways or choice of services. But probably more important are Pan Am’s experience and American know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb service. For Pan Am, first across the Pacific and Atlantic and Round the World, has made over 50,000 transatlantic crossings — more than any other airline. People naturally prefer to travel with the leading carrier that flies more people abroad than any other airline . . . 28%, in fact, of all travel to and from the
a purpose
You’ll roam the world over and still not find a place with the storybook charm and enchantment of Bermuda. You’ll love her climate and semi-tropical foliage, her customs and picture-postcard scenery.
Every corner of this colorful British colony along the Gulf Stream offers much to see, much to do. Fabulous sea gardens to explore in glass-bottomed boats. Powdery pink sands for healthy fun in the sun. Secluded coral-covered coves coaxing you to picnic. And the clearest blue waters you’ve ever skimmed over or swum in.
Enchanting’s the word for the evenings. You’ll revel in the rhythm of Calypso songs . . . dance under star-studded skies ... or relax on a picturesque patio overlooking the sea as it shimmers in moonlight. They are all part of the mesmeric magic that makes your Bermuda holiday so memorable.
Hamilton’s the Heart and Goal
The island’s
activity centers around the capital, Hamilton. Your sightseeing may start with the stately House of Assembly — oldest elected parliament in the Empire except for England itself. Or a stroll over to Salt Kettle settlement, stopping at one of the waterfront cafes for afternoon tea, English fashion. You’ll shop for British tweeds and cashmere, doeskin, woolens, perfume and china and you can bring back up to a gallon of your favorite liquor at sizable savings.
St. George is Soothing
You’ll find old St.George, the colony’s Rip Van Winkle town, delightful, diverting. Meander through its mazes of crooked streets and alleyways . . . past sleepy, centuries-old homes, discovering en route such nostalgic names as Featherbed Lane, Shinbone Alley, Petticoat Lane and Slippery Hill.
Historic Fort St. Catherine is only a brief bicycle ride away. Tour the galleries and tunnels . . . listen to hair-raising legends of privateering days . . . peek through the peep-holes of its ancient walls. Or for a really breathtaking vista, ferry to St. David’s and climb atop the picturesque lighthouse.	A
Even Her Transport’s Entrancing
Just getting around Bermuda makes sightseeing doubly delightful. Begin with a spin on a bike or a tandem built for two — as everyone does, on the island. Change the pace and hire a tiny English-made taxi — or hop aboard a horse-drawn carriage and roll along to the Aquarium to see the fantastic array of multi-colored underwater life. Then follow the trail to ages-old Crystal Caves and the Devil’s Hole. Stop over, by all means, at Tom Moore’s tavern for a sip of the island’s fine rum swizzle. Or sample some native sweet potato pudding. Delicious.
Snorting bv Dar . . . Romantic by Night
~r ' o ^	^	^	^
Is your forte sport? Golf at glamorous courses. Mid-Ocean, for example, is world famous. There’s harbor sailing all year round and ocean racing, too. There are the beaches, of course . . . and fishing. Amberjack abound in these semi-tropical waters and you’ll battle tuna and marlin as well.
continental United States
Pan American Clippers fly on Bulova Time
To relive your Bermuda Holiday for years to come,
take your camera along.
Pan American
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
Down Devil’s Hole watch the mammoth sea tortoise and gaping grouper jump clear out of the tvoter to reach your baited line.
All year ’round fishing and pleasure craft dot
Bermuda’s blue waters.
Hamilton’s quaint waterfront shops are famous for bargains in British wares — and souvenirs.
Fascinating is scenic St. George. Bermuda’s oldest town.