grams to all parts of the world. Postal cards by airmail carry 5 cents postage; 6 cents for Vz oz. letters.
CURRENCY The monetary unit is the quetzal, which is divided into 100 cents and is at par with the United States dollar with similar coin and bill denominations.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS.. . Tourist cards (dated within 60 days before arrival) may be obtained through all Guatemalan consulates and some offices of PAA, especially gateways (coastal cities), as well as through some travel agents. Cards cost $2 U. S. currency. Only documentary proof of citizenship, age and moral standing are necessary to obtain them. All travelers must be in possession of smallpox vaccination certificates. A logical amount and class of photographic equipment is allowed. Customs officials are instructed to conduct inspection of baggage of visitors very lightly. Liquor and tobacco are restricted to 1 bottle and 3 Vi oz., respectively.
DRUG STORES. . . No soda fountains, but both European and U. S. pharmaceuticals and cosmetic products. French perfumes may be purchased freely at reasonable rates.
ELECTRIC CURRENT... In Guatemala City and throughout the tourist centers it is 110 volts, A.c.
FAUNA . . . Deer, wild boar, mountain puma, monkey, alligator, tapir, wild turkey, duck, crane. Guatemala’s national bird is the quetzal, a rare species with beautiful feathers. The country is also well known for its variety of humming birds.
FLORA . . . Climatic conditions make Guatemala an ideal spot for an almost unlimited variety of flowers, such as the native orchid and hydrangea, hibiscus, violet and rose. A white orchid called monja blanca (white nun) is indigenous to the country and is Guatemala’s national flower.
FOOD . . . Most restaurants serve Continental food, others specialize in native dishes. Here are some you may want to try: Gallo en chica, enchiladas, chiles rellenos, chojin, tamales, rellenitos de platano and, of course, Guatemalan coffee, one of the best. Pasteurized milk is served in Guatemala City; however, it may be wiser for the traveler to drink it boiled only.
GAMBLING • • • Unlawful. National lotteries, bingo games. Private betting at cockfights and horse races is overlooked.
LANGUAGE .. . Spanish is the official language, but you will have no trouble being understood when speaking English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING • • • Dry-cleaning establishments and hotels where you can get practically anything done—double tariff for rush orders—within 24 hours.
LIQUOR .. . Chief native liquors are rum Amaja and rum Colonial. They sell for about $2.50 a bottle. Popular U.S. drinks are available from 60 cents to 90 cents. Hotel bars are open mostly between 10:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.; others up until midnight and a few until 2:00 a.m.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . .. Practically all doctors speak English,