New York, about 11 hours to Mexico City with Clipper connection at Houston, 3 more to Guatemala. By ship 3 days from New Orleans to the Guatemalan port of Puerto Barrios.
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are good hotels in Guatemala City and throughout the highlands. Rates given are single, American Plan and apply the year around. First-class hotels include the Palace, Pan American (both $7 to $12.50) and the San Carlos ($7 to $10). Others in order of merit are the Plaza ($5 to $7), Colonial, Gran Continental and La Continental. There are a number of good pensions ($3.50 to $5) including Casa Shaw, Gueroult, and Fernandez.
ARTS . . . Indian crafts and weaving. Many modern cultural groups in music, ceramics and painting. Guatemala City has a fine archaeological museum, museum of natural history, art academies, and exposition centers.
BALLET . . . Although there is no set season, the Ballet “Guatemala” and visiting foreign groups perform from time to time in the capital.
BANKS ... In Guatemala City there are the Bank of London and South America, Ltd.; Banco Agricola Mercantil; Credito Hipôtecario Nacional; and Banco de Occidente.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS ... Official holidays: lanuary 1; Thursday and Friday of Holy Week; May 1; August 15; September 15 (Independence Day); October 20; and Christmas Day. There is a long roster of fiesta days; some of them are: March 19 at San José; Holy Week celebrated throughout the country in April; July 25 at Santiago de Atitlân; July 28-31 at Momostenango; August 14-16 at Guatemala City; November 1 and 2 throughout the Republic; December 8-12 at Escuintla; December 17-21 at Chichicastenango.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . American cigarettes of any popular brand are available but cost 60 cents a package. Local cigarettes such as Victor, Club, Raleigh, Fleetwood, are good and cost only 23 cents. Only 3 Vi ounces of tobacco in any form are allowed to be brought into the country.
CLIMATE... It is almost always balmy and pleasant, although there is a “showers” season and a dry season. See chart above for Guatemala City temperatures. In the highlands the days are warm, the nights cool.
CLUBS. . . Guatemala Country Club, Mayan Golf Club, American Club, Lions Club, Tennis Club and Guatemala Club. Visitors’ cards can be arranged through your travel agent.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... since, as mentioned before, Guatemalans are quiet spoken and well bred, loudness in speech and manners and exaggerated dress are frowned upon. Men should always wear a jacket in restaurants and clubs.
COMMUNICATIONS .. . Local dial telephone service in Guatemala City. Long-distance service to all points in the interior of the Republic through local public service and international calls through Tropical Radio and Telegraph service and All America Cables. Radio-