In Chichicastenango, life centers around the colorful market place. In the background Indians burn incense on the steps of the Church of Santo Tomás.
white of eggs were mixed in the mortar to give it greater strength. The Presidential Palace of light green stone is interesting. A must for tourists is the relief map of the country found in Minerva Park, which gives you an excellent idea of the country. Many old churches escaped the 1917 earthquake, among them the Cathedral, which is interesting. The National Museum is of interest, too. The markets, particularly the big one at the Mercado Central behind the Cathedral, and Merca-dito, or little market, are “must sees.” Hayter Travel, Clark Tours offer 4-, 5-, and 9-day tours which cover the Mayan highlands and Guatemala City and include Chichicastenango. Antigua and Lake Atitlán. Other tours include some of the out-of-the-way places such as a jungle trip and a visit to Rio Dulce and Lake Izabal. Using a tour operator is the most convenient, but you can go on your own.
Chichicastenango is the spot in Guatemala. There you will find the Mayan Inn, famous all through Central and South America. The food is wonderful, the setting unique. Spanish colonial and Indian art everywhere you look. Barefoot Indian boys are house servants. Strolling marimba players entertain you. Rates are about $8 to $10 per day, American Plan. A visit to the Indian market held Thursdays and Sundays is one of the main reasons for going.
Antigua is the former capital of the country. Some of the old buildings have survived. The market has good hand-wrought silver. Stay at Rancho Nimaiay, Posada Belém or Hotels Antigua or Aurora. Palin, south of the capital, has a market under a Ceiba tree.
Lake Atitlán is 5,000 feet above sea level and is overlooked by three volcanoes. Hotels Casa Contenta and Tzanjuvu here are excellent. Indian villages ring the 85-mile shoreline. Other points of interest are: Quezaltenango, a mountain town with a cool, moderate climate. It has an interesting market and narrow streets. It is the country’s second city. Puerto Barrios, chief port of the Caribbean, is a 200-mile train ride through the jungles from the capital.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION... The National Tourist Bureau at Edificio Asturias and the tour operators mentioned under where to go have literature, maps and information. Pan American’s office is on 6a Avenue, No. 12-12 (Tel. 2250 and 2251). In New York the Guatemala Consulate is at 30 Rockefeller Plaza.