and specialists exist in almost all phases of medicine. Most of the doctors and surgeons are ex-interns from famous institutions in the United States such as the Mayo Clinic, Johns Hopkins and others.
MOTION PICTURES • • • U.S., British, Italian, French, Mexican and Argentinean films are shown by most movie houses. In the center of town are the Lux, Capitol, Palace and Roxi. In the residential district the Reforma, a plush, up-to-date theater. All foreign films have Spanish titles.
MUSIC ■ • • Guatemala originated and is noted for marimba instruments. Its native dance is the son, which is danced during all celebrations. In Guatemala City marimba music may be heard nightly at El Gallito’s, Jardín Guatemala and Pierrot’s. Band music is played weekly at Central Park; the Guatemala Symphony Orchestra performs several times a year under local and guest directors.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS.. - There isn’t much night life in the capital; Pigalle above Reforma theater and Tacana across from Palace Hotel have floor shows, however, Ciro’s has one now and then. El Gallito, Pierrot and Jardín Guatemala have local color.
PHOTOGRAPHY... Black-and-white and color film, stills and movie, are available at Alvarez, Andreu, Biener, Legrand, Muñoz and Serra. All of them develop still film and Andreu’s develops color and black-and-white movies. These stores, plus the native curio shops, carry souvenir photographs.
RELIGION. • .The country is Catholic; however, Protestant sects such as Presbyterian, Seventh Day Adventists, Episcopalian, Lutheran, Church of England, and Baptist, are represented. There is a synagogue. Most of the Protestant sects have services in English, the Lutherans in German.
RESTAURANTS - • • Besides the dining rooms of Guatemala City’s three best hotels (Palace, Pan American, San Carlos), El Patio and La Casita serve Continental food; Triana specializes in dishes from Spain; Sans Souci, Jardín Guatemala and El Gallito feature local dishes; Altuna has good seafood and Italian delicacies. All of these are centrally located. Halfway between the capital and the southern suburbs is Las Palmas, with exquisite Italian and Continental dishes; farther out is El Pelicano and El Intimo with á la carte service. There are fine French pastry shops such as Simon, Jensen’s, Palace and Austria, where one may enjoy coffee, tea, chocolate and any soft drink. Snacks may be had at El Sesteo, Palacio, Benjaminson’s, Kosak’s, and at any of the many hot-dog stands. Restaurants are not expensive. A dinner at one of the best {El Patio, La Casita) will cost from $2.50 to $3. Native dinners range from 80 cents to about $1.25.
SHOPS AND STORES... Shopping district in the capital is along 6th Avenue; on 12th Street and 8th Street, as well as on 9th, 10th and 11th Streets. Stores generally open from 8.30 a.m. to 12.30 noon and from 2.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. Native curio shops are open until 8:00 p.m. Some of the main stores are: La Paquetería, La Ciudad de Paris, La Perla, La Marquesa, El Paje, Fru-Fru, El Cario, Lazaro. These stores carry U.S. and European merchandise. Curio shops are: