Maya-tex on 7th Avenue at 9th Street; Robbie’s, at 6th Avenue, No. 9-61; Guatelandia, at 8th Avenue, No. 8-24; Mildred’s, at the San Carlos Gran Hotel; souvenir shop at the Pan American Hotel; La Regional and several others at Central Market; and Rigalt’s, Nelly’s, La Dama, Dyers and Regina Shop on 12th Street between 4th and 5th Avenues. Also Handtex, 12th Street and 16th Avenue; Domus, 12th Street 3-53, and Cecile’s, 7th Street 3-67.
SPECTATOR SPORTS. . . Soccer and basketball, both local and international games every Sunday and occasionally weekdays, held at the capital’s Olympic Stadium and Gymnasium, located at the Olympic City on 7th Avenue Colonia Lima; baseball at the Olympic Field, situated at Minerva Park at the end of Avenue Simeon Cañas.
SPORTS. . . Golf, tennis, swimming, bowling, billiards. Sharpshooting and skeet at the Club de Caza, Tiro y Pezca. Fishing is good on both coasts, Puerto Barrios on the Atlantic and San José and Iztapa on the Pacific; boats and outboards may be hired by the hour and by the day; equipment should be procured in the city or brought from home. Hunting is plentiful: deer, pumas, pheasant, wild turkey, ducks, squab, quail, wild boar. Licenses for hunting arms are necessary; they may be obtained through hunting groups.
THEATERS... In Guatemala City occasional plays at Teatro Cervantes, with a maximum admission charge of 60 cents. Plays are in Spanish. Other theaters, like the Palace and Capitol, have fewer performances.
TIME. . . Central Standard Time is observed throughout the year.
TIPPING.. . Tip for the same services you would at home, but slightly less.
TRANSPORTATION. .. Taxis abound in Guatemala City. Bus lines run in all directions covering practically the whole city. To travel inland you can use the services of a tour operator or hire a car, about $25 a day for trips outside the city. There are railroad and local airline services throughout the country.
WATER. .. Although purified, it may not be safe to the visitor unaccustomed to it. All hotels serve boiled water in their carafes. Popular U.S. soft drinks are also available.
WHAT TO BUY. . . Guatemala excels in colorful Indian weaving. Indian market and native curios shops offer a variety of these products. As an example, leather (hand-tooled) shoulder-strap bags cost from $3.50 to $6 in comparison with similar goods (imported from Guatemala) that sell in the United States for $24. Skirts in Mayan designs, shirts, blouses and sandals make wonderful and colorful sportswear.
WHAT TO WEAR. .. Medium-weight apparel, sportswear, light sweaters, walking shoes, topcoat and swimsuit are suggested. A light raincoat is advisable for travel during May to October and through the lowlands. A dark basic dress or suit is appropriate for evening.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING. . .
Guatemala City. . . In the capital take a look at the Church of Santo Domingo, which is whiter than white because milk and the