Notre Dame Cathedral at Paris
THE FARES INCLUDE
TRANS-ATLANTIC TRANSPORTATION by Pan American World Airways—first class or by tourist "Rainbow Service," as indicated.
TRANSPORTATION IN EUROPE as indicated in the itineraries, including air tickets where specified; first class rail tickets in Italy, Spain and Ireland; and second class rail tickets elsewhere in Continental Europe. Reserved seats are provided for day use on trains, where available. Where overnight journeys by rail occur in the itineraries, application will be made for a berth in a double sleeping-car compartment. Travel by motor coach, bus, local steamers, etc., as indicated in the itineraries.
HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS: Bed in twin-bedded room with private bath at good, moderate-priced hotels. Single room with private bath, if requested, will be provided where available, at additional cost in accordance with regular tariff of the hotel.
MEALS: Th ree table d'hote meals daily except in Paris, Rome, Lyons, Madrid and London, where breakfast only is provided, as most travelers prefer to take luncheons and dinners in those cities at restaurants of their own choice. Meals in dining cars are included when traveling in trains during regular meal hours. When traveling first class by air, complimentary meals are served. Air tourist services provide meals at moderate cost.
SIGHTSEEING: U sually by motor coach, with guide.
TIPS: Where tips are added to hotel bills they are included in the tour fares.
TRANSFERS of passengers and personal hand baggage between
city air terminals, railroad stations and hotels.
BAGGAGE: Personal hand baggage is carried free throughout
Europe in accordance with the customary weight allowances of the airlines and railways. Sixty-six pounds of baggage are carried free by the trans-Atlantic first class services. In connection with tourist services, forty-four pounds are carried free.
COOK'S REPRESENTATIVES: You will be met by Cook's representatives at all air terminals and railway stations abroad, and Cook's network of offices in Europe will provide a constant link with home. Although you travel independently, and not in a group, you will always have friends in strange lands.
TOUR FARES DO NOT INCLUDE expenses of passports, visas and such personal items as laundry, wines, mineral waters and any foods or beverages not included in the menu of table d'hote meals. Transfers of passengers and baggage between airfields and city air terminals, which are usually provided by the airlines at nominal cost. Cost of vehicles or guides for any sightseeing not specified in the itineraries. Baggage Insurance (which is strongly recommended) can be arranged through any Cook Office or your Travel Agent. Any items not listed above as included in the tour fares are at the passenger's own expense.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
All tour itineraries and dates may be affected by alterations in steamship, air or railroad services of the various countries, or by other causes. The right is reserved to withdraw any tour announced in this program and to make such alterations in the itineraries as may be found desirable for the convenience of the parties and the proper carrying out of the tours. The right is also reserved to decline to accept or retain any person as a member of any party at any time.
All fares shown are based on the present (January IS, 1954) value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States Dollar, and on current tariffs, and are subject to confirmation or adjustment (either way) when final payment for the tour is made.
All orders, tickets and coupons are issued by Thos. Cook & Son Incorporated, and/or Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and/or their Subsidiary and/or Associated Companies, upon the express condition that they shall not be in any way liable for any injury, damage, loss, accident, delay or irregularity which may be occasioned either by reason of any defect in any vehicle, or through the acts or default of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger, or of any hotel proprietor or servant or of any other person engaged in carrying out the purpose for which all orders, tickets and coupons are issued, or otherwise in connection therewith. Such conveying, etc., is subject to the laws of the country where the conveyance, etc., is provided. Each such order, ticket or coupon is (or if more than one_ order, ticket or coupon, such several orders, tickets or coupons collectively, are) to be regarded as one contract by, or on behalf of, the particular company or person named in it (or them).
Thos. Cook & Son Incorporated and/or Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and/or their Subsidiary and/or Associated Companies accept no responsibility for losses or additional expense due to delays or changes in train, steamer or other services, sickness, weather, strikes, war, quarantine, or other causes. All such losses or expenses will have to be borne by the passenger. Baggage is at “owner’s risk” throughout the tour(s). Insurance of baggage is recommended._ Small articles, coats, wraps, umbrellas and other hand baggage are entirely under the care of the passenger, who is especially cautioned against the risk attached to these being left in conveyances. Pan American^ World Airways System is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event, during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passenger’s ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between airline and the purchaser of these tickets and/or passenger.
FOR RESERVATIONS APPLY TO
G-30M-2-54
¿Uartan ffar
Kanrs to
mmw
via
Pm Au er [can World Aìrways
System of tfe'-^Tfyiny Clippers
The Pilgrimage Shrine at Lourdes
ROME • LOURDES PARAY-LE-MONIAL LISIEUX • FATIMA WALSINGHAM • AYLESFORD ASSISI ‘ KNOCK
Printed in U.S.A.