Visit EUROPE during Marian Year
Now is the time to visit Europe and make your pilgrimage to her famous shrines. Marian Year has been proclaimed by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, to honor the 100th anniversary of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception. From December 8, 1953, special indulgences will be granted to the faithful who journey to Rome or who attend rites that will be held at the principal shrines dedicated to the Virgin Mary.
Going by Pan American Clipper, you can be in Rome or Paris tomorrow, relaxed and ready to start your specially arranged tour. Regardless of season, your crossing will be smooth, for the Clippers cruise serenely in the upper air high "above the weather." You'll enjoy the friendly atmosphere aloft, the comfortable reclining seats, the delicious complimentary meals, pillows, magazines — everything for your comfort and pleasure as the guest of the World's Most Experienced Airline with a fine tradition for service and dependability.
In addition to the principal points of sightseeing interest in the cities you will visit, these tours are specially arranged to include the important religious shrines. Rome, first of all, with its four great basilicas: St. Peter's, St. John Lat-eran, St. Paul's-Outside-the-Walls, and especially St. Mary Major "in which the mosaics of our predecessor of pious memory still glisten, an outstanding monument to the Divine Maternity of the Virgin Mary."
Then there is the Tomb of St. Francis and important souvenirs of St. Clare amid Assisi's pic-
turesque hills. You'll find inspiration at the famous Grotto of Lourdes and the Miraculous Spring associated with the child Bernadette; at Lisieux, the Shrine of the Little Flower; and at England's shrines in Walsingham and Aylesford.
You'll have an opportunity to see the glorious art and architecture of the Old World: majestic Notre Dame, the glorious Cathedral of Chartres, the golden dome of St. Mark's and the historic Palace of the Doges at Venice, Michelangelo's immortal frescos in the Sistine Chapel at Rome, Giotto's Campanile in Florence, and innumerable other works of the great masters of the Renais-
sance.
These are not escorted group-tours, but trips for individual travelers, families or groups of friends, leaving any day. Arrangements throughout Europe are made by Thos. Cook & Son, the world's largest travel agency, whose offices and representatives throughout Europe provide an efficient service as you travel from place to place. All reservations are made for you in advance.
Read through these Marian Year itineraries and note how many places are covered in a few short weeks, thanks to the travel time you save by Clipper. You may start any day you wish, and arrange for variations in the tour route to fit your special requirements. These tours are ideal for pilgrimage groups, and, if you feel you can organize a group of your own, ask about the free Clipper passage available for tour leaders.
Pan American DC 6-B Clipper in flight
Dinner on board a Pan American Stratocruiser
St. Peter s Basilica in Rome