
■
The Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima
ITALY AND FRANCE
Including Vatican City, Lourdes and Lisieux
TCS No. M-l	2 Weeks
1st Day Arrive Rome in the afternoon by Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day ROME, “The Eternal City." Three half-days of to	sightseeing in ancient, medieval and modern
6th Day Rome, including St. Peter’s and Vatican City.
Ample free time. Leave the afternoon of the 6th day by plane for Nice.
7th Day NICE, the heart of the French Riviera. Drive along the Grand Corniche Road to La Turbie, Monaco and Monte Carlo, returning via the Lower Corniche.
8th Day Leave Nice by afternoon train for Nimes, arriving in the late evening.
9th Day Continue by mid-morning train via Toulouse to Lourdes, arriving late afternoon.
10th Day LOURDES. Leave by evening train for Paris.
11th Day Arrive Paris in the morning.
12th Day PARIS. Half-day sightseeing in the city includes and the Louvre Museum, Arc de Triomphe, Unknown
13th Day Soldier's Tomb, Napoleon’s Tomb. Also trip to Lisieux by train.
14th Day Leave Paris in the evening by Pan American Clipper for New York.
INCLUSIVE FARES PER PERSON
Based on each of two persons traveling together
Off Season On Season
Tourist Atlantic Service .........$ 800.85	$ 870.85
First Class Atlantic Service......$1,010.00	$1,111.00
PORTUGAL . SPAIN • FRANCE • ITALY
Including Fatima, Toledo, Lourdes, Vatican City, Paray-le-Monial and Lisieux
TCS No. M-2	3 Weeks
1st Day Arrive Lisbon in the morning by Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day LISBON. Morning sightseeing in the city. Also full-fo day trip to Fatima to visit the famous shrine.
5th Day Leave on the 5th day by plane for Madrid.
6th Day MADRID. Half-day sightseeing in the city, includ-fo	ing Alcala, Grand Via, Senate, Town Hall, Houses
8th Day of Parliament, El Retiro, Bull Ring and Prado Museum. On another day motor to Toledo, visiting the city walls, Alcazar, El Greco's House, the Museum and Cathedral; also full-day drive to Es-corial, including the Monastery, Royal Palace and Royal Gardens. Leave Madrid the evening of the 8th day by Sud Express for Hendaye.
9th Day Arrive Hendaye in the morning. Continue by train to Lourdes, arriving in the late afternoon.
10th Day LOURDES. Leave Lourdes by evening train for Toulouse; continue by night train to Nice.
Nth Day NICE; arrive in the morning. Drive along the Grand Corniche Road to La Turbie, Monaco and Monte Carlo, returning via the Lower Corniche.
12th Day Leave Nice by afternoon plane for Rome.
13th Day ROME, “The Eternal City." Three half-days of thru sightseeing in ancient, medieval and modern
15th Day Rome, including St. Peter’s and Vatican City. Also full-day excursion to the Basilica of St. Lorenzo outside the walls, Hadrian's Villa, Tivoli, Waterfalls, Villa d'Este and return via Forum Italico.
16th Day Leave Rome by evening train, via Turin, to Lyons.
17th Day Arrive Lyons in the afternoon.
18th Day Leave Lyons by morning train for Paray-le-Monial.
Continue by late afternoon train via Moulins to Paris, arriving in the late evening.
19th Day PARIS. Morning sightseeing to Louvre Museum, and Arc de Triomphe, Unknown Soldier’s Tomb, Les
2Oth Day Invalides, Napoleon's Tomb, the Madeleine and other points of interest.
21st Day Leave Paris in the evening by Pan American Clipper for New York.
INCLUSIVE FARES PER PERSON
Based on each of two persons traveling together
Off Season On Season
..-»-ss^rsrq
.. ... __ •« ^
«8 -,8S	_...........I t(S*Vl
The famous Double Church at Assisi
FRANCE • ITALY • SWITZERLAND GERMANY • BELGIUM • HOLLAND ENGLAND
Including Lisieux, Lourdes, Vatican City, Assisi, Walsingham and Aylesford
TCS No. M-3	4 Weeks
1st Day Arrive Paris in the morning by Pan American Clipper.
2nd Day PARIS. One day of sightseeing in the city includes to	the Louvre Museum, Notre Dame, Napoleon's
6th Day Tomb and the principal boulevards. On another day sightseeing to Chartres. Also train tickets to Lisieux and return. Leave Paris by train the evening of the 6th day for Lourdes.
7th Day LOURDES; arrive in the morning. Leave by evening train for Toulouse; continue by night train to Nice.
8th Day NICE; arrive in the morning. Drive along the Grand Corniche Road to La Turbie, Monaco and Monte Carlo, returning via the Lower Corniche.
9th Day Leave Nice by afternoon plane for Rome.
10th Day ROME, The Eternal City." Three half-days of thru sightseeing in ancient, medieval and modern
14th Day Rome, including St. Peter's and Vatican City. Also full-day excursion to Basilica of St. Lorenzo outside the walls, Hadrian's Villa, Tivoli, Waterfalls, Villa d’Este, and return via Forum Italico.
15th Day Leave Rome in the morning by CIAT motor coach, via Assisi, for Florence.
16th Day FLORENCE, “City of the Renaissance." Morning of sightseeing to Medici Chapel, Cathedral, Giotto's Campanile, Viale dei Colli and Piazzale Michelangelo. Leave Florence by afternoon train for Venice.
17th Day VENICE. Morning of sightseeing on foot includes visits to the Church of St. Mark, Palace of the Doges, the Dungeons and Bridge of Sighs; also afternoon gondola trip on the Grand Canal to Ca d'Oro, Rialto Bridge and the Churches of Frari and Santa Maria della Salute.
18th Day Leave Venice by early morning train for Milan.
Opportunity to visit the Cathedral and painting of “The Last Supper." Continue by afternoon train via the St. Gotthard Route to Lucerne.
19th Day LUCERNE, “Queen of the Swiss Resorts." Travel by lake steamer and mountain railway to the summit of Pilatus for one of Switzerland’s finest panoramas.
20th Day Leave Lucerne in the morning by Rheingold Express for Mayence; transfer to Wiesbaden.
21 st Day RHINE VOYAGE, from Wiesbaden to Coblence; continue by train via Cologne to Brussels.
22nd Day BRUSSELS, “The Little Paris," capital of Belgium.
Morning tour of the city visiting the Bourse, Town Hall, Fountain Boy, Justice Palace, Museum and Parliament. Continue by North Star Express in the afternoon to Amsterdam.
23rd Day AMSTERDAM, picturesque city of canals and dykes. Half-day sightseeing to the Ryksmuseum, the Royal Palace, and other places of interest. Also afternoon visit to Volendam and the Isle of Marken.
24th Day
25th Day thru
27th Day
28th Day
Leave Amsterdam by mid-morning plane for London.
LONDON. Full-day sightseeing in the city visiting the Guildhall, old city area, St. Paul’s Cathedral, Tower of London, National Gallery and other famous places. Full-day motor trip to Stoke Poges, Windsor Castle, Eton and Hampton Court Palace. Round-trip tickets provided for day's journey to Walsingham (Norfolk), a famous place of pilgrimage; also tickets to Aylesford (Kent).
Leave London in the evening by Pan American Clipper for New York.
INCLUSIVE FARES PER PERSON
Based on each of two persons traveling together
Off Season On Season
Tourist Atlantic Service .......$1,086.10
First Class Atlantic Service....$1,280.30
$1,156.10
$1,381.30

The Basilica at Lisieux
IRELAND • ENGLAND • FRANCE • ITALY SPAIN . PORTUGAL
Including Knock, Walsingham, Aylesford, Lisieux, Paray-le-Monial, Vatican City, Lourdes, Toledo and Fatima
TCS No. M-4	4 Weeks
1st Day Arrive Shannon Airport in the morning by Pan American Clipper. Transfer to Limerick.
2nd Day LIMERICK. Round-trip tickets to Killarney.
3rd Day Leave Limerick by afternoon train for Claremorris.
4th Day CLAREMORRIS. Visit nearby Knock (Mayo), once the “Lourdes of Ireland." Leave Claremorris by afternoon train for Dublin.
5th Day
6th Day to
9th Day
10th Day thru
12th Day
13th Day 14th Day
15th Day 16th Day 17th Dny to
19th Day
2Oth Day
21st Day
22nd Day
23rd Day and
24th Day
25th Day
26th Day and
27th Day 28th Day
DUBLIN, capital of Southern Ireland. Three-hour drive in and around the city, visiting many places of interest. Leave Dublin by afternoon plane for London.
LONDON. Full-day sightseeing in the city visiting the Guildhall, old city area, St. Paul's Cathedral, Tower of London, National Gallery and other famous places. Full-day motor trip to Stoke Poges, Windsor Castle, Eton and Hampton Court Palace. Also round-trip train tickets for day’s journey to Walsingham (Norfolk), a famous place of pilgrimage; also tickets to Aylesford. Leave London the evening of the 9th day by plane for Paris.
PARIS. Full-day sightseeing in the city visiting the Louvre, Notre Dame, Napoleon's Tomb and the principal boulevards. One-day trip to Chartres. Also train tickets to Lisieux and return.
Leave Paris by afternoon train for Moulins.
Leave Moulins by early morning train for Paray-le-Monial; continue by afternoon train to Lyons.
LYONS. Afternoon train via Turin for Rome. Arrive Rome in the morning.
ROME. “The Fternal .City.'' Three half-days of sightseeing in ancient, medieval and modern Rome, including St. Peter’s and Vatican City. Also full-day excursion to the Basilica of St. Lorenzo outside the walls, Hadrian’s Villa, Tivoli, Waterfalls, Villa d'Este, and return via Forum Italico. Leave Rome the afternoon of the 19th day by plane for Nice.
NICE. Leave by afternoon train for Nimes, arriving in the late evening.
Continue by mid-morning train via Toulouse to Lourdes, arriving in the late afternoon.
LOURDES. Leave by afternoon train for I run; continue in the evening by Sud Express to Madrid.
MADRID; arrive in the morning. Afternoon of sightseeing including Alcala, Puerto del Sol, National Palace, University City and Palais Royal. One day by motor to Toledo, visiting the city walls, Alcazar, El Greco's House, the Museum and Cathedral.
Leave Madrid by plane for Lisbon.
LISBON. Morning tour of the city, visiting points of interest. Also full-day trip to the Shrine of Fatima.
Leave Lisbon in the evening by Pan American Clipper for New York.
INCLUSIVE FARES PER PERSON
Based on each of two persons traveling together
Off Season On Season
Tourist Atlantic Service .......$1,072.00
First Class Atlantic Service....$1,236.90
$1,142.00
$1,338.65
Tourist Atlantic Service . . First Class Atlantic Service
.$ 903.90 $1,068.80
$ 973.90 $1,170.55
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
RESERVATIONS may be made through your Travel Agent, who represents Pan American World Airways and Thos. Cook & Son, or through any Cook Office. A deposit of $100 is required at the time of booking; balance of the fare is payable not later than four weeks before departure from the U.S.A.
CANCELLATION: It is understood and agreed that if these tour arrangements are cancelled by the passengers after deposit has been paid to initiate reservations, Thos. Cook & Son reserve the right to charge an amount of 5% of the tour price to cover the cost of the work involved, maximum charge $50, plus communication charges and indemnities claimed by transportation companies, hotels, etc., if any.
REFUNDS: Cla im for refund for any transportation or sleeping-car tickets issued but not used must be
accompanied by the unused tickets together with a receipt for new tickets purchased (if any) and some statement detailing the reason for non-use. Unused sleeping-car tickets are usually refundable in full (less location fees), providing the reservation has been canceled more than forty-eight hours in advance of train time and providing the ticket is properly endorsed. Unused tickets must not be detached from the cover in which they are issued. Cook's protect the interest of their clients in every possible way by issuing all tickets abroad after passengers leave the United States, and will enter any claims with the transportation company involved without charge to the passenger. Any amounts recovered will be returned in full to the passenger.
PASSPORT AND VISA REQUIREMENTS: Details will be given on request.