4-j
TOUR PAG-1 4 DAYS IN GUATEMALA
Inclusive Fare from Brownsville, Texas —$197 Per Person Inclusive Fare from Mexico, D.F., Mexico — 160 Per Person
1ST oax MON Leave Brownsville, Texas, 9:10 a.m., or Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:55 p.m. Arrive Guatemala City at 5:35 p.m. Transfer to hotel.
2ND DAT TUI By motor from Guatemala City to Antigua via the village of Palin and Lake Amatitlan. Afternoon sightseeing and overnight at Antigua.
3RD DAY WED By motor from Antigua to Chichicastenango with short stops at points of interest and at Lake Atitlan, a launch trip to one of the interesting shore villages. Overnight at Mayan Inn.
In Chichicastenango, visiting the open air market, the church, the museum and jade collection of Father Rossbach and other points of interest.
By motor from Chichicastenango to Guatemala City via Chichoy Pass and Tecpan, arriving in Guatemala City in time for lunch. Afternoon, sightseeing in Guatemala City.
Leave Guatemala City at 7:30 a.m. Arrive Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:10 p.m. or Brownsville, Texas at 4:30 p.m.
TOUR PAG-2 4 DAYS IN GUATEMALA
Inclusive Fare from Brownsville, Texas — $206 Per Person Inclusive Fare from Mexico, D.F., Mexico— 169 Per Person
Leave Brownsville, Texas, 9:10 a.m. or Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:55 p.m. Arrive Guatemala City at 5:35 p.m. Transfer to the hotel.
By motor from Guatemala City to Antigua via the village of Palin and Lake Amatitlan. Afternoon sightseeing and overnight in Antigua.
By motor from Antigua to Chichicastenango with short stops at points of interest and at Lake Atitlan, a launch trip to one of the interesting shore villages. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
In the morning by motor to visit the Indian market at Chiche and the Maya ruins of Utatlan. Return to the Mayan Inn for lunch. In the afternoon visit the museum and jade collection of Father Rossbach and other points of interest at Chichicastenango.
Morning free in Chichicastenango. In the afternoon by motor to Guatemala City, arriving shortly before dinner.
Leave Guatemala City at 7:30 a.m. Arrive Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:10 p.m. or Brownsville, Texas, at 4:30 p.m.
TOUR PAG-3 5 DAYS IN GUATEMALA
Inclusive Fare from Brownsville, Texas — $207 Per Person Inclusive Fare from Mexico, D.F., Mexico— 170 Per Person
Leave Brownsville, Texas, 9:10 a.m., or Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:55 p.m. Arrive Guatemala City at 5:35 p.m. Transfer to the hotel.
Full day sightseeing drive in Guatemala City.
By motor from Guatemala City to Chichicastenango, arriving in time to see the market and interesting church scenes. Afternoon at leisure. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
In Chichicastenango. Free for visiting the museum and jade collection of Father Rossbach, and other points of interest.
By motor from Chichicastenango to Antigua by way of Lake Atitlan where a launch trip is made to one of the interesting shore villages. Overnight at Antigua.
Morning sightseeing in Antigua. After lunch by motor from Antigua to Guatemala City, arriving in time for dinner.
Leave Guatemala City at 7:30 a.m. Arrive Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:10 p.m. or Brownsville, Texas, 4:30 p.m.
2ND DAY SAT. 3RD DAY SUN.
4TH DAY MON.
5TH DAY TUE.
&TH DAY WED.
7TH DAY THU.
TOUR PAG-4 6 DAYS IN GUATEMALA
Inclusive Fare from Brownsville, Texas —$207 Per Person Inclusive Fare from Mexico, D.F., Mexico— 170 Per Person
1ST DAY MON Leave Brownsville, Texas, 9:10 a.m. or Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:55 p.m. Arrive Guatemala City at 5:35 p.m. Transfer to hotel.
2ND DAY TUE, By motor from Guatemala City to Antigua via the village of Palin and Lake Amatitlan. Afternoon, sightseeing and overnight in Antigua.
3RD DAY WED. By motor from Antigua to Chichicastenango by way of Tecpan and Chichoy Pass arriving at the Mayan Inn for lunch. Afternoon at leisure and overnight at the Mayan Inn.
4TH Day THU. In Chichicastenango, visiting the open air market, the church, the museum and jade collection of Father Rossbach, and other points of interest. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
STH DAY FR; By motor from Chichicastenango to Guatemala City with short stops at points of interest and at Lake Atitlan a launch trip to one of the interesing shore villages.
6TH DAY v Full day sightseeing drive in Guatemala City.
7TH DAY SUN. At leisure in Guatemala City.
STH DAY MON Leave Guatemala City at 7:30 a.m. Arrive Mexico City, Mexico, at 12:10 p.m. or Brownsville, Texas, 4:30 p.m.

8TH DAY FRI.
9TH DAY SAT.
10TH DAY SUN.


7TH DAY THU. A full day’s drive to San Pedro and San Marcos to visit the interesting Indian markets. In the afternoon return to Quezaltenango by way of the picturesque Indian village, San Martin Chile Verde. Overnight in Quezaltenango.
By motor from Quezaltenango to Chichicastenango with a stop at San Francisco El Alto, and the largest blanket market in the country. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
In Chichicastenango, visiting the open air market, the church, the museum and jade collection of Father Rossbach and other points of interest. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
Sunday, the gala day in Chichicastenango, is spent in seeing the weekly market and the colorful scenes at the church. Overnight at the Mayan Inn.
11TH DAY MON. In the morning by motor from Chichicastenango to Antigua. During the afternoon, a sightseeing drive in Antigua, including all points of interest. Overnight at Antigua.
Continued sightseeing in Antigua and the surrounding villages. Overnight in Antigua.
In the morning, by motor from Antigua to Guatemala by way of the villages of Santa Maria de Jesus and Palin and Lake Amatitlan. The afternoon at leisure in Guatemala City.
At leisure in Guatemala City.
At leisure in Guatemala City.
Leave Guatemala City 7:30 a.m.
Arrive Mexico City 12:10 p.m.
12TH DAY TUE. 13TH DAY WED.
14TH DAY THU. 15TH DAY FRI. 16TH DAY SAT.
'PI
m
M
YYY
THE MAGIC OF MAYAN LAND IS NOW YOURS TO ENJOY
TRUCKED AWAY in the Mayan Highlands, yet within pleasant driving distance from Guatemala City, is a tourist treasure never, until the advent of the Flying Clipper Ships, within reach of the average-length vacation. Now Guatemala’s majestic and exotic scenery, her fascinating relics of the mighty Mayan civilization and the Spanish conquest, her modern facilities for hospitable entertainment are less than nine hours from Brownsville, Texas . . . less than five hours from Mexico City. They are correspondingly accessible, by fast through connecting services, to U. S. cities north of Pan American’s Brownsville terminus.
Flying is synonymous with speed yet, paradoxically, air travel is the most leisurely of travel. There’s no rushing nor herding. The Clipper’s transformation of days into hours allows so much more time at your destination that, combined with elimination of all need for making hotel, sightseeing and other arrangements, these all-expense tours actually afford the most leisurely way of enjoying Guatemala’s beauty and attractions.
You’ll thrill to your tour from the moment your plane sweeps into the sky. A living map unfolds beneath your window . . . fascinating and colorful vistas of hills, valleys, rivers and villages. Then charming Guatemala City, the nation’s capital, a quaint blend of old and new. The excellent accommodations, the intriguing meals and the glorious sightseeing provided you there and up in the Mayan Highlands are consistent with the premium standards Pan American sets for its discriminating patrons.
TOUR PRICES INCLUDE
All Tour Fares Quoted in U. S. Currency
ÏÏÏÏÏ
yyJ
VAA/
rmrn
YYn
WAv
0GJD,

TOUR PAG-5 14 DAYS IN GUATEMALA
Inclusive Fare from Brownsville, Texas —$294 Per Person Inclusive Fare from Mexico, D.F., Mexico— 257 Per Person
This tour is available weekly for parties of three or more, or when three or more individual tourists are available to form a party, but otherwise it is available only every other week. A Monday departure may be substituted for Friday departure if desired, subject to the same party size conditions, returning the second Monday or 15th day. Exercise of this option entails a slight alteration in the tour itinerary shown.
Leave Brownsville, Texas, 9:10 a.m., or Mexico City, Mexico, 12 :55 p.m. Arrive Guatemala City 5:35 p.m.
Transfer to the hotel.
Full day sightseeing drive in Guatemala City.
0 0 SUN At leisure in Guatemala City.
4TH DAY MOt- By motor from Guatemala City to Lake Atitlan, arriving in time for lunch. Afternoon at leisure and overnight at Lake Atitlan.
In the morning a launch trip to one of the interesting shore villages, returning to the hotel for lunch. Afternoon at leisure. Overnight at Lake Atitlan.
ath Da i WED In the morning by motor from Lake Atitlan to Quezaltenango. During the afternoon visiting points of interest in Quezaltenango, the volcanic geysers at Zunil and the mineral baths at Al-molonga. Overnight at Quezaltenango.
Air tickets covering the air route as specified in the itineraries.
HOTEL ROOMS First class hotels are used at all points. In Guatemala City, hotel accommodations are provided on the basis of two persons in a double room with private bath. At hotels outside of Guatemala City, accommodations are provided on the basis of two persons in a double room without private bath.
For all tours other than Tour PAG-5, a room with bath at hotels outside of Guatemala City may be had for the duration of the tour, upon an additional payment of $5.00 per person for double occupancy and $10.00 per person for single occupancy.
For Tour PAG-5, the additional payment for rooms with bath outside of Guatemala City will be quoted on confirmation of the accommodations desired.
Meals on planes when aloft, and three meals a day at hotels used by the tours will be provided.
A free baggage allowance of 20 kilos (44 lbs.) per passenger, limited to three pieces.
Transfers of passengers and baggage between the airports and hotels as specified by the itineraries.
SIGHTSEEING:	In small groups accompanied by a competent
English speaking host. Where motor is specified in the itineraries, modern 5 and 7 passenger cars are provided. Slightly higher rates will be quoted on request for sightseeing by private motor in groups of two or more.
TOUR PRICES EXCLUDE
Transportation to or from Brownsville, Texas, or Mexico, D.F., Mexico; Mexican Insurance Tax or Stamp Tax on air tickets; Tourist and Transit Cards or visas, other governmental taxes or charges; gratuities; laundry, wines and other items of a purely personal nature; sightseeing except as specified by the itineraries; and baggage insurance.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
The tour itineraries, inclusive of the days on which sightseeing services are to be provided, and all services and rates shown herein are subject to change without notice due to alteration of the schedules of the carriers, currency fluctuation, or for any other reason.
Published tour itineraries and fares provide for accommodations only for the time stated and are subject to alterations and additional charges for any detention if found necessary to the proper carrying out of arrangements or because of any delays, changes of schedule or interruption of any air or other service shown or because of sickness or any other cause.
All arrangements for sightseeing service, hotel accommodations, ground transportation or conveyance, etc., are made by companies of Pan American Airway System & Associated Carriers as agents only, and only on the condition that none of such carriers shall be liable for any injury, damage, loss, delay or irregularity occasioned either by reason of defect of any vehicle or through the act or default of any other party engaged in carrying out the arrangements of the tour or otherwise in connection therewith or of any hotel proprietor or servant.