Q. What, exactly, is this new service?
A. It provides de luxe President service and thrifty Rainbow service aboard the same airliner.
Q. Why is Pan American offering this new service?
A« To provide you with greater frequency of convenient and flexible flight schedules, airliners providing a single type service, you sometimes have had to wait until there was a flight available offering the kind of service you desired.
Now, the service of your choice is provided on every fli You have double your choice of service.
Q. What kind of aircraft offers this new service?
A« Pan American’s famed double-decked “St feature this new service in the Pacific. The* dependable airliners Pan American has usee and all-President flights. (On Clipper flights to Europe, Pan American is inaugurating this its Super-6 Clippers.)
Q. How are the two types of service provided for on "Strato” Clippers?
Ab The main cabin is divided into two comfortable compartments. The Rainbow section is located in the forward part of the plane, the President section in the rear.
lights . . . more leretofore, with
rato” Clippers se are the same 1 on all-Tourist from the Orient s new service on
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
0.
A.
What kind of seats are provided in each section?
In both sections passengers enjoy the newest and most comfortable seats available. In the Rainbow section seats are
more comfortable
than ever before—all seats
recline and face forward. In the President section every passenger enjoys one of Pan American’s famed Sleeperette seats, newly redesigned to make them more comfortable than ever. Day and night, Sleeperettes provide completely relaxing comfort —stretch w-a-y out to full bed length for restful slumber.
Are berths available?
Yes, with President service big, roomy berths are available—nominal surcharge on certain routes.
How does Pan American’s new service compare in roominess and comfort with single service aircraft?
You actually have more space, more comfort with this new service. Because Rainbow passengers are limited in number, there is an easy, restful atmosphere.
And because President passengers are limited,
even more luxurious and personalized service can be offered.
Q.
A.
a.
A.
a
A.
Are meals served in both sections?
Yes, passengers in both Rainbow and President sections are served delicious meals prepared right in the galley aboard your “Strato” Clipper. And there’s no extra charge for meals served in either section. President passengers enjoy delicious full-course meals — Champagne service: cocktails and hors d’oeuvres. Rainbow meals are delicious but less elaborate. All the food service is now better than ever before.
Is bar service available?
Yes. President passengers can enjoy bar service at their seats or in the lower-deck club lounge (a wonderful place for just relaxing, too). On certain routes, bar service is also available to Rainbow passengers at their seats.
What kind of washroom facilities are there?
“Strato” Clippers have been redesigned to provide each section with its own attractive, convenient washroom facilities.
Q.
A.
Where is this new service available?
Pan American is putting this new service into effect on Clippers throughout the Pacific and from the Orient to Europe as rapidly as possible. For specific information, see your travel agent or Pan American.
Pax American World Airways
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE