ISip IPS jp? si®
Holiday Houseparty Air Cruise
Departure Dates
June 14-21-28, July 5-12-19-26,
August 2, 9, 16, 23, 30 (further dates upon request)
SATURDAY—New York passengers join Cruise at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel where light breakfast will be served. Brief stops enroute at Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and Miami, for boarding passengers.
Cruise arrives Nassau in the Bahamas late afternoon where luxurious accommodations are provided at the Fort Montagu Hotel, together with evening entertainment. Shops are open until 9 p.m. with transportation provided.
SUNDAY—Church services (all religions). Sightseeing in the afternoon, beach facilities, sports, etc. See Fort Charlotte, colorful Grant’s Town, the Queen’s Staircase and many other points of interest. Evening free.
MONDAY—Cruise continues in morning to Haiti. See where Columbus first landed, and Haiti’s famous Citadel enroute. After lunch, a shopping tour to mahogany and native craft centers. Night tour to native clubs.
TUESDAY—Morning free, the Riviera D’Haiti Hotel at which you stay has a lovely pool and cabanas. Afternoon trip to scenic Mt. Boutilier. Evening free for choice of entertainment—Voodoo ceremonies, dancing, etc.
WEDNESDAY—Flightseeing trip to Cuba, lunch enroute. Remainder of afternoon may be planned at your discretion, facilities available for swimming at El Presidente Hotel. Night tour to Prado, Chinatown, Jai Alai (pronounced HI LI) games. Optional nightclub tour available.
THURSDAY—City sightseeing tour with half day for shopping or plans of your own. Dinner and show at famous supper club.
FRIDAY—Flightseeing return via Florida Keys and Miami to Northern Cities.
Holiday Houseparty Air Cruise
Departure Dates June 28, July 12-26, August 9 (further dates upon request)
SATURDAY—New York passengers join Cruise at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel where light breakfast will be served. Brief stops enroute at Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and Miami, for boarding passengers.
Cruise arrives Nassau in the Bahamas late afternoon where luxurious accommodations are provided at the Fort Montagu Hotel, together with evening entertainment. Shops are open until 9 p.m. with transportation provided.
SUNDAY—Church services (all religions). Sightseeing in the afternoon, beach facilities, sports, etc. See Fort Charlotte, colorful Grant’s Town, the Queen’s Staircase and other points of interest.
MONDAY—Cruise continues in morning to Haiti. See where Columbus first landed, and Haiti’s famous Citadel enroute. After lunch, a shopping tour to mahogany and native craft centers. Night tour to native clubs.
TUESDAY—Morning free, the Riviera D’Haiti Hotel at which you stay has a lovely pool and cabanas. Afternoon trip to scenic Mt. Boutilier. Evening free for choice of entertainment—Voodoo ceremonies, dancing, etc.
WEDNESDAY—Flightseeing trip to Montego Bay, Jamaica, along the beautiful north coast of Jamaica.
THURSDAY—Beach and bathing at famous Doctor’s Cave Beach with all the facilities of the lovely new Montego Beach Hotel where entertainment is provided.
FRIDAY—Choice of sightseeing trip to mountains or trolley trip to falls. Shopping is immediately available in numerous Montego Bay shops.
SATURDAY—Morning flight to Guatemala, the land of eternal spring. Lunch in Guatemala City at the San Carlos Gran with afternoon trip to mountains and overnighting at the Casa Contenta Hotel.
SUNDAY—Chichicastenango excursion via Solola and Los Encuentros. See native religious ceremonies and visit colorful Indian open air markets. Return drive via Lake Atitlan to Casa Contenta.
MONDAY—Special tour launch visit to picturesque Indian Village of San Antonio Palopo, continuing to Antigua with overnight accommodations at lovely Posada Belem.
TUESDAY—Visit old ruins in Antigua. Primitive pottery works, foot looms, and coffee plantations. Afternoon drive to Guatemala City.
WEDNESDAY—Day in Guatemala City for independent activities, shopping, visiting points of interest. Meals and accommodations at San Carlos Gran Hotel.
THURSDAY—Depart for Miami with lunch enroute. Afternoon and evening at Miami Beach. Optional beach party arrangements.
FRIDAY—Morning free. Departure for northern cities at noon.
A Courteous Resort Airlines Staff (Flight Crew, Hostess, Cruise Director) At Your Service All The Way !
