AN AMERICAN INSTITUTION S E R V I N G T H E I N T E R N A T I O N A L F I E L D
PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS AND ASSOCIATED RAILROADS
Three years ago Pan American System and Associated Railroads crossed the great time barriers between North and Latin America. Rapidly growing commerce and closer social and political relations between the Americas is the result of this achievement.
Railroad systems of the United States, particularly those named in the list below, have speeded and extended their range of service to the West Indies, Mexico, Central America and South America by linking their routes with those of the Pan American
System. De luxe "plane trains" from all parts of the United States make connections with airliners at Miami and Brownsville, Texas. From these points Pan American airliners ply to principal cities of 33 Latin American countries. Those cities and countries have the same advantage of direct-by-air connection with American railroads.
Over routes carefully chartered by Col. Charles A. Lindbergh, and engineered by the most able men, you may go for business or for pleasure, or for both, to friendly southern lands of winter sunshine.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R.
C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. (Big Four) Central of Georgia R. R.
Chicago and Eastern Illinois R. R.
Florida East Coast Ry. Illinois Central R. R. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Missouri Pacific R. R.
Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis R. R. New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Pennsylvania R. R.
Richmond, Fredericksburg & Potomac R. R.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST AIR TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM
A traveler on Pan American Airways observes the orderly and attractive stations, restful surroundings in the ships' cabins, and the drifting landscape. But behind this apparent ease and simplicity of accomplishment, is an intricate and costly system of business administration, engineering, and personal achievement.
American business saw in Latin America a limitless field for the expansion of Industry and commerce, for travel that would add to the fullness and joy of living. But it saw also the need for fast passenger, mail and express transportation. Air transportation, 100 or more miles per hour, was the only answer.
Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh was commissioned as technical adviser. He made the surveys and laid out the routes. Competent engineers designed
and constructed the finest airports with smooth runways, necessary lighting, fully equipped shops for maintenance, two-way radio communication, meteorological stations. All passenger stations were planned and built for the pleasure and comfort of travelers. These developments are constantly under way on a large scale.
Foreign air mail contracts were arranged with the United States Post Office Department. A fleet of 101 modern Air-liners has been put into service. A staff of the best trained pilots available was engaged. On October 19, 1927, the greatest of international airway systems went into operation. Pan American Airways is and will continue to be a major factor in friendly and commercial relations between the Americas.
Pan American Airways, Inc., 122 E. 42nd St., New York
Brownsville, Texas, 1101 Levee Street	Miami, Fla., 44 Biscayne Blvd.
T.N.Y 5-12-1. 30
LITHO. IN U.S.A.— SNYDER 5. BLACK. Ino.N.Y.