JAMAICA
and
Jamaica — beautiful beaches and crystal clear water.
Though Cuba has a leisurely Spanish way about her she quickens your pulse with her rhumba, night clubs and lightning-fast jai alai games. You’ll explore the new and historic old sections of Havana, the cathedrals, narrow streets and all . . . try your luck at the Casino . . . and pose for snapshots before the Capitol, open air
cafes and Morro Castle guarding the harbor.
Jamaica’s a perfect vacationland with mile-high mountains, fine beaches, roaring cascades, quiet ocean lagoons and some of the world’s most luxurious hotels at Montego Bay and other north shore resorts, where the international set gathers during the season. You’ll find excellent accommodations also at Kingston on the south. From “shooting the rapids” on a raft to shopping for bargains in a “Free Port” shop, you’ll enjoy Jamaica which is as British as they come. So too is Barbados, where the flying fish sport in Tent Bay by the beautiful resort town of Bathsheba.
Here are some of the world’s finest beaches and the water temperature averages 77c
In Cuba the lovely old church of Arroyo Arena rewards you for the climb.
Native markets abound in fascinating souvenirs.
You’ve so many reasons for going by
MORE DEPARTURES
Dozens of Pan American flights every day from the U. S. to the Caribbean and Latin America. The entire Caribbean is easy to reach with Pan Am services to Cuba, Jamaica and Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, Virgin Isles, Lesser Antilles and nearby Central and South America.
7 GATEWAYS — ALTERNATE ROUTES
Pan Am’s alternative routes permit you to go one way-return another — through New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore or Miami on the East Coast . . . New Orleans, Houston or Brownsville on the Gulf . . . San Francisco or Los Angeles on the West Coast. And under Pan Am’s Extra Travel Bonus Plan you can often arrange your itinerary to visit many places for no more fare than a trip to one of them would cost. See page 11 for Circle Trip details.
FASTER SCHEDULES
Pan American Clippers can fly you to all the fascinating pleasure spots of the Caribbean in a matter of hours from any of the Gateway Cities listed above. And many flights involve no change of plane.
Ask for a copy of our colorful Bermuda-Nassau folder