Charlotte Amalie’s “streets” twist and turn picturesquely.	Puerto Rico is one of the most beautiful of the islands of the
West Indies.
PUERTO RICO, V
and
SAMPLE PUERTO RICO’S SCENERY and climate, its beaches, sailing and deep-sea fishing and you’ll know why Ponce de Leon settled here as governor. You could spend all your time around fascinating San Juan, which blends Old Spain with smart suburbs and stunning modern hotels such as the new San Juan Intercontinental, but try the sulphur baths at nearby resorts and attend the races and cockfights. Golf at historic Ft. Morro where the hazards are bastions and sentry boxes 400 years old. Take in at least one fiesta — every village has its own and it lasts for days.
YOU’RE OFF THE BEATEN TRACK in the Virgin Islands but, as in Puerto Rico, you’re still in the U. S. A., enjoying luxurious accommodations. Capital of St. Thomas, charming Charlotte Amalie, is a blend of colonial charm and modern living. The other main island is St. Croix. At Salt River Columbus battled the Carib Indians and the capital, Christiansted, is preserved by law
as an historic site. The third island, scenic St. John, combines a modern resort with a National Park in the making.
6
Cost Inclusive PAN AM HOLIDAYS
Vacation in the Caribbean independently or in a congenial group, with everything arranged in advance . . . excellent hotels, sightseeing, etc. You know beforehand what everything will cost. PAN AM HOLIDAY tours range from a few days to several months . . . from a single island to all Latin America.
CONTINUE ON ROUND SOUTH AMERICA . . . down one coast and up the other on an RSA tour at round-trip savings. Vacation in cities like Rio, Montevideo and Buenos Aires on the East Coast and then swing up the West Coast over Panagra routes to Panama, visiting cities like Santiago and Lima and the fabulous land of the Incas. From Panama, return via Central America, Mexico or the West Indies to the East, West or Gulf Coast of the U.S. Ask for details of the 30% discount on Excursion fares for both groups and individuals.
BRING BACK GIFTS DUTY FREE . . . $200 worth, wholesale value, if you’re out of the U. S. 2 to 12 days, allowable once a month. An extra $300 worth (for a total of $500), if you’re gone more than 12 days, allowable once in 6 months. You can also ship back duty free any gifts valued under $10 — and they won’t count against your duty free allowance. Many travelers use Air Parcel Post for this purpose because it’s quick, easy.
Antigua’s the place to really relax!
THE LESSER ANTILLES have French and Dutch undertones. Clippers stop at Antigua among the Leeward Isles, where Nelson lived . . . Guadeloupe . . . and mountainous Martinique, where Napoleon courted Josephine. Within easy reach are Nevis and rustic St. Martins, Grenada, St. Lucia, Dominica, with its volcanic “boiling lake”, St. Vincent, from which sailed the Bounty of Mutiny fame, and Barbados with all its windmills.
YOUR CHOICE OF 3 SERVICES TO
PUERTO RICO BY CLIPPER
NEW LOW FARES. Pan Am offers 3 classes of service between New York and San Juan: First Class at regular fare. A low-fare Tourist service. And a new lower-than-ever Thrift service for only $45 one way, $90 round trip, with refreshments available at slight extra charge.
16-day excursion fare — round trip New York to Puerto Rico only $168, First Class. No extra charge from any East Coast city between Boston and Washington, D. C. Available May 1 to Dec. 10.
family fare plan. Every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday all year round. You pay regular First Class fares . . . your wife and all children 2 through 21 pay half fare. No charge for one child under 2.
7