HAITI and
DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC
HAITI’S exotic, unforgettable. Land of voodoo, jungle drums, quaint shops, fine hotels and singing natives carrying baskets on their heads. A Republic where the French-speaking people are proud of their French traditions and the freedom their slave ancestors wrenched from Napoleon’s troops. Red-roofed Port-au-Prince is unique ... a capital where the sophisticated and primitive go hand in hand. Don’t miss the mountaintop Citadelle and Sans Souci Palace, as fabulous as their builder, Christophe, the slave-who-became-a-King. You’ll find bargains in mahogany, tortoise and sisal products as well as French perfume and inexpensive examples of Haiti’s increasingly important primitive art.
THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC’S spie and span, modern as they come, with good beaches, fine roads and elaborate hotels. Yet here you’ll find the New World’s oldest city; oldest university and oldest stone fortress. Also, the tomb of Columbus and reminders of Old Spain, including the language and the custom of chaperoning.
f
FINEST CLIPPERS
. . . are flown over Pan Am Caribbean routes. These Clippers, among the fastest in Pan Am’s world-wide fleet, are the last word in comfort, with soft reclining seats, and draft-free air conditioning.
tourist service. This outstanding service brings international travel within reach of anyone’s budget. And though it costs no more than ordinary Tourist Service, the world-famous Rainbow features some of Pan Am’s newest and fastest equipment. You enjoy delicious complimentary meals and many other travel comforts.
first class service. Luxury service at regular fares. The President features fewer passengers and extra attendants, providing even more room and greater comfort per passenger . . . magnificent meals. Nonstop service between New York and Caracas includes the superbly luxurious extra-fare President Special with Sleeperette service.
Travel NOW —
PAY LATER
By making use of the Pan Am Pay Later Plan — you can pay for your Pan American trip to the Caribbean as you can a car or major appliance. This Plan permits you to budget your air transportation and all or part of your hotel accommodations, sightseeing and ground Travel abroad — practically everything. You pay as little as 10% down and can take up to 20 months to pay. Example: on a $212.40 Circle Trip through 7 vacationlands (from New York and return), you pay only $21.40 down and as little as $11.46 per month.
no transportation tax. Here’s another money-saving advantage of travel to and around the Caribbean: there is no 10% transportation tax on the outside-the-U.S.A. portion of such trips.
