along the Caribbean Coast of SOUTH AMERICA
MEXICO and CENTRAL AMERICA
AMONG THE MOST INTERESTING Caribbean Islands are those that hug the South American coast: Trinidad, with its Calypso singers, Hindu temples, Moslem mosques and bazaars crammed with oriental treasures. Tobago, which could be Robinson Crusoe’s island as they claim. And Curacao, Dutch as a tulip, where you’ll shop to your heart’s content and photograph the whirl of activity as the pontoon bridge glides back to let ocean freighters pass. On South America’s Caribbean coast are the Guianas . . . and in Venezuela, with its luxurious accommodations, Caracas, a city of old Spain set amid orchids, and Lake Maracaibo, with its acres of oil wells on stilts. Also, in Colombia, who can resist romantic Cartagena, the walled city that juts out on a sandy peninsula?
SUNNY MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA are the lands of fiestas, Spanish conquistadors and ancient Aztecs and Mayans. Here are deserts and beaches, volcanoes and snow-capped mountains and world-famous resorts like Acapulco and sophisticated modern cities like Mexico City. Scenic Guatemala’s a tourist haven, famed for Lake Atitlan and Chichicastenango’s picturesque market. Panama’s popular for its deep-sea fishing and excellent accommodations, its shopping and all-night fun. And the other fascinating Central American countries . . . Costa Rica and Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador . . . are equally colorful and exciting. Mexico, of course, offers a little of everything . . . from the Yucatan to Guadalupe and from Popocatapetl to hill-climbing Taxco, the town famed for its silver.
Typical of the fabulous hotels found throughout the Caribbean
is the Curacao Intercontinental.
NEW HORIZONS — a Perfect Travel Guide
Tells you what to see, wear, bring back . . . where to stay, dine, etc. Covers 1000 places in the Caribbean and all 6 continents. It is included in the Travel Kit for State Department personnel. Only $1 at any Travel Agent or PA A office. Incidentally over half a million copies of this 576-page book have been sold.
Why is Pan American the Most Popular Airline Serving the Caribbean?
One explanation might be the frequent Clipper schedules ... or the varied routings and alternate gateways ... or the choice of flights and accommodations. But more important, perhaps, are Pan Am’s experience and American know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb service.
For Pan Am, now serving all 6 continents, was the first throughout Latin America ... as it was first across the Atlantic, the Pacific and Round The World ... and has won more awards than any other airline, while carrying more than 17,000,000 passengers over a billion miles.
People also like the Caribbean CIRCLE TRIPS by Clipper, Pan Am Holiday tours and the convenient Pay Later Plan which permits them to Go Now — Pay Later. But probably most of all, they want to travel with the leader . . . the carrier that flies more people to Latin America than any other airline ... 29% of all travel to and from the United States.
TO RELIVE your Clipper trip for years to come, be sure to take your camera along.