&AeGccmwnic y'ladeOuf/ocA
The Middle and South Americas supply many materials vital to the war economy. There are basic products such as grains, hides, wool, cotton, sugar, coffee, cocoa and bananas, and basic commodities such as petroleum, copper, nitrates, gold, silver and tin. There are other commodities possibly less important to the economy as a whole, but still of the utmost importance in the war effort; commodities such as antimony, chrome, quartz crystals, manganese, industrial diamonds for cutting tools, fibers for rope, and vegetable oils for a variety of industrial uses; quinine that comes from the cinchona tree and rubber, both native to the American tropics. Nor must we forget precious woods and lightweight balsa wood and various minerals.
The growing industrialization of Latin American countries, which were chiefly agricultural, pastoral or mining, has necessarily changed the nature of our exports to them, changing the volume of certain types of consumer goods and increasing the proportion of equipment and factory supplies as well as increasing the volume of parts and other urgently needed equipment. This industrial development will increase the economic standards of the countries of Latin America and, therefore, their purchasing power.
The war has merely accelerated an inevitable, steady increase in inter-American trade. U. S. sales to Latin America during the period after the first World War evidence that we can more than hold our own in relation to European competition. Our trade should continue to increase in normal peacetime markets and will be aided materially by rapid transportation and communication provided by companies and organizations such as Pan American World Airways. This airline has, since it started service 17 years ago, made the development of inter-American business a prime objective.
Large credits have been accumulated by Latin American countries abroad because those countries have been valuable sources of raw materials and products essential to the war effort and the defense of the Hemisphere. With these credits Latin Americans will be enabled to purchase many of the things they will need for their postwar economy.
22