(J)4/Aa/ /o fyte€i/i
For Mexico, bring the same clothing that you wear at home on sunny days in the late fall. For the cool evenings a light overcoat or wrap is desirable. In Taxco, Uruapa, Oaxaca and other places at lower altitudes than Mexico City somewhat lighter clothing will be found convenient, say prints and linens. By all means, bring comfortable walking shoes.
For Yucatan, Central America, and the lowlands of Colombia, Venezuela, and Ecuador, light summer apparel can be used throughout the year. Summer clothing should be worn in the coast towns of Peru and Chile, and “Palm Beach’’ or similar weight suits are in order in the West Indies, the Guianas, the Canal Zone and Brazil.
Warm clothing will be needed for the cool mountain regions, especially in Peru and Bolivia. Sports clothes, rubber-soled shoes and white apparel are useful while visiting the coastal areas of eastern South America. For Argentina and Uruguay one should dress as in the U. S., i.e., in accordance with the prevailing season. Laundry is done at the large hotels en route.

You’re allowed 55 lbs. (25 kilos) without excess charge. This is an ample amount for the average trip. It allows a woman to take, for instance, one airplane lightweight wardrobe suitcase containing a fur cr cloth jacket, two lightweight suits, three blouses or sweaters, four sports dresses, two afternoon dresses, three evening dresses, two pairs of sports shoes, two pairs of dress shoes, two pairs of evening sandals, mules, four soft felt hats, or turbans, three handbags, one dozen pair of hose, four pairs of gloves, one negligee, six slips, six panties, three nightgowns, belts and accessories, toilet articles.
It would allow a man to carry a lightweight airplane fibre bag containing five suits (four light, one heavy), eight shirts, eight underwear, collars, ties, socks, handkerchiefs, three pairs of shoes, toilet articles, miscellaneous.
An additional overnight bag is suggested to be used for side trips and general utility. Topcoat is usually carried.
14