00
Your Travel Documents
Pan American World Airways has always maintained complete and up-to-date information on all details pertaining to international travel requirements, with the result that our passengers are given the utmost assistance in preparing for any formalities. Those of you who are about to travel or who are making travel plans should request our booklet “Summary of Wartime International Travel Requirements for Departure from New York, Miami, New Orleans, Brownsville, Laredo, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Seattle,” at your nearest Pan American Airways office or through your travel agent.
The ramifications of international travel requirements in wartime are such that only an organization of the scope of Pan American with offices throughout the world, constantly in touch with the government offices concerned with international travel,can keep such information accurate and up-to-date.
Customs
At the airport, just before you depart, and at the airport of your destination, your baggage will be inspected by the proper government authorities and in your presence. The following items are most commonly subject to custom duties: unopened cigarettes, candy, perfume, matches; any purchases in their original unopened packages; new clothing and jewelry which may be assumed to have been purchased for re-sale at your destination; anything which may not be considered as personal effects. Certain items such as matches, etc., are subject to confiscation in certain countries.
Censorship
All written, printed and photographic material, phonograph records and any other tangible forms of communication are subject to United States censorship during wartime and also that of certain other countries en route. Some of the foregoing material requires licenses from the U. S. Office of Censorship. In addition, licenses are required for articles or material classed as “Technical Data.” Any persons carrying an appreciable amount of written or printed matter or other censorable material which cannot be inspected by the censors in a short time can obtain information from our offices on arranging advanced examination to save time en route.
29