Your Reservation for traveling in Aviations One World
You have heard people speak of our “One World”. You should visit as many parts of it as possible, and this can be done most quickly and comfortably by flying. All of us may not be able to make these flying visits right now, but we can study the other countries of the world by reading, looking at pictures and movies and talking to those who have been there. Another good way to learn about the countries of the world is to take an imaginary trip abroad by air. That is what we will do in this booklet.
Look at the map on the inside cover. You can select a trip to almost any place in the world. There are so many possibilities that this little book could never include all of them. In fact, it seems better just to give one example, and the one chosen is the trip from New York to London. Just about everything connected with a Flying Clipper Trip can be explained by taking a transatlantic flight.
Now you may think your trip to London begins by boarding an airplane. That is not so. By the time you take your seat in the Clipper, half the work has already been done, but you, as a passenger, do not see the many preparations that have been made for you.
Plans for your trip really begin in a big reservations control room in which the two most prominent things are a long table with reservations clerks wearing telephone head sets, and a huge bulletin board covered with dates and numbers. The picture opposite shows a corner of that room.



mSÜÜ/
One of these telephone sales persons in the picture takes your request for reservations. He, or she, first looks at the big board to see if the flight that you want still has space, or in other words, a seat not sold. (The man putting a new tag on the board has his left hand on the space which represents Flight 528 on October 3.) You will want to fly on Flight 100 which is the “President Special.” The space is available, so he makes a record of your reservation. Your ticket may then be sold to you by your travel agent or the Pan American office where you called, or it can be sent to you by mail.
You must now get your passport and visa, which together are a permit to travel to other countries. Make sure you have met all requirements, medical and otherwise, for leaving the country. This will be explained to you by the person selling you your ticket. You may want to select some new clothes for your wardrobe. Most important of all, learn as much as possible about London and the British Isles before time for departure, so that you will enjoy your trip more and know how to conduct yourself in a strange land.
This will be a lot of fun — even if it is only an imaginary trip.
THINGS TO DO by yourself , with your parents, or friends
1.	Using a piece of string and a globe, find the direct airline route (shortest route) from New York to London. Check the cities and countries you will fly over and locate them on a map.
2.	In how many languages can you say, “hello” and “good-by”? Ask your friends to help you.
THINGS TO DO in school

I6“*,
1.	Make a trip to the library and select books to read about the British Isles and the people that live there. Select other books from the library or your classroom to learn about additional countries to which you may plan a real or imaginary airplane trip. Prepare a written or oral report telling what you learned about the countries and the people. Include in your report the ways airplanes can be used to help peoples of the world better able to understand each other.
2.	Ask someone who has visited or lived in London or other cities you may want to study to talk to the class about their experiences. Have him show and explain his passport and visa.
3.	Visit an airline reservation control room or a travel bureau to learn more about how reservations are made for you.

7
'