Dear Future Clipper Travelers:
This booklet, “Aviation’s One World”, has been written especially for boys and girls who are interested in aviation and in the Flying Clippers. Many of you write to us to ask for pictures and information. Still more of you are learning about aviation at school, especially in science, social studies and geography. We’ve tried to make the book interesting for you to read at home or to use in school.
The story will take you on a trip from New York to London. You’ll travel on one of the “Strato” Clippers, which is shown on the opposite page. It was built for Pan American World Airways by the Boeing Aircraft Company of Seattle, Washington.
The “Strato” Clipper is the largest airplane in commercial service. Its wing span is 141 ft. 3 in.; its height from runway to top of tail more than 38 ft.; length 110 ft. 4 in.; its cruising speed approximately 340 miles per hour. The four engines develop 14,000 horsepower compared with your automobile which delivers 80-90 horsepower.
The airplanes flown by Pan American World Airways and other airlines are opening “Aviation’s One World” to people who never before thought of being globe trotters. For every one of us in the older generation who has traveled abroad, 10, 20, or maybe 50 of you future air travelers will go to Europe, Latin America, the Orient, or the South Pacific.
This booklet is intended to help you become a good air traveler in today’s one world.
George Gardner, Educational Director
Pan American World Airways
28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City, New York
P• S• Those of you who are already veteran air travelers will excuse us, we’re sure, for including you among "Future Clipper Travelers”. We’d like to welcome you aboard again.
Pan American World Airways wishes to thank
Dr. Frank E. Sorenson, Professor of Education and Geography at The University of Nebraska and now on leave to serve as Director of the Education Staff of the Point Four Program, for advice in planning "Aviation’s One World.”
Marilyn C. Link, Coordinator of the Nebraska Air Age Education Division and Instructor in Elementary Education at The University of Nebraska, for reviewing the manuscript, making suggestions regarding illustrations and writing the "Things to Do” sections.
The following Elementary and Junior High School teachers enrolled in the Elementary Education Workshop, The University of Nebraska, Summer Sessions, 1952: Herbert H. Sandberg, Denver, Colo.; Frances M. Davis, Springfield, Mo.; Marjory J. Farrell, Kansas City, Mo.; Virginia M. Hensley, Battle Creek, Mich. — for checking and testing.
Clipper and Sleeperette Trade-Marks Reg. U. S. Pat. Oft.