Welcome
On most airlines today the girls who have the jobs that this friendly lady in the picture has are called stewardesses.
In past years the term hostess often was used for the same job, and in some ways the word hostess is more appropriate. Her most important task is to represent the airline as hostess to the passengers.
She has many other duties. She checks the tickets, makes up passenger reports which are delivered to the traffic department at the end of the flight, gives you a magazine, writing material or a game to play.
Most girls who seek careers in aviation think of the stewardess position, so a few words about stewardesses could be put in at this point.
On Pan American World Airways, a candidate for a stewardess position must be between 21 and 26 years old, must have completed two years of college or have two years of business experience, and pass a thorough physical examination. She must be able to speak at least one foreign language fluently — a requirement cojnmon to all international airlines, but usually not necessary on the domestic air carriers. The stewardess must like people, for she must be friendly and helpful at all times.
Most of the time there are many more applicants for stewardess positions than jobs available.However, girls may find many other attractive opportunities in air transportation. The work done by women in reservations control was mentioned on another page. There are women working at the ticket counters, and at secretarial, clerical and executive positions. For every pilot and stewardess flying for the airlines, there are twenty other workers busy at ground jobs.
Another person highly important to the service aboard the Clipper is the Clipper Steward. In the early years of Pan American, only stewards were employed to serve aboard airplanes. At that time the flights were
Aboard!
longer, the planes were smaller so that it was not necessary to have more than one steward, there were fewer conveniences, and it was felt that men should be employed to do the service duties. Stewardesses were first employed by Pan American during World War II when so many men were in military service. Afterward, with bigger, faster planes that had more facilities for serving passengers, a steward and stewardess on each of the large Clippers were needed.
You will find out more about how this works out on the following pages.
THINGS TO DO by yourself \ with your parents, or friends
1.	Go to your Library to select and read books about some famous men and women flyers or about careers of women in aviation. A good book about the Stewardess is Skygirl by Mary Murray, Duell, Sloan & Pearce, Publishers (distributed by Little, Brown & .Co., Boston).
2.	Look through magazines and newspapers for pictures of a stewardess and other airline workers. Paste these in your scrapbook and write the worker’s title and a description of his duties.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Invite a steward or stewardess to talk to you or your class about their work and the cities, states and countries they visit.
2.	See some films-and filmstrips that tell the stories about the many workers in aviation.
3.	Choose someone in your class to write a letter to the Civil Aeronautics Administration, Aviation Education Division, Washington 25, D. C. or one of the airlines requesting information about job qualifications and duties of the steward, the stewardess and other airline workers.
10