Time to Eat
Is there anything more important than eating when you are hungry?
From the beginning of air line service, it was recognized that if passengers were flying at meal time, they must be served meals. On the deluxe flights like the President Special (which is illustrated by these pictures) the meals are like those which would be served by the best hotel in New York, San Francisco, or your own home town.
On tourist services, if the journey is short, you may not be served a meal at all. If the journey is fairly long, you may be served a simple meal with coffee or milk. On the low cost tourist services which cross the Atlantic, a simple meal is served if you request it, but you will be expected to pay a small sum for it.
Whether the meals are deluxe or simple, a great part of the fun of an air trip is eating aloft. After dinner you may relax with a book or magazine.
THINGS TO DO by yourself \ with your parents, or friends
1.	Visit a restaurant kitchen or an airline commissary to learn how meals are prepared for large numbers of people. Interview the chef or cook asking him such questions as how much food he buys, how much it costs, how long it takes to prepare, etc.
2.	Look in magazines for pictures of foods you would serve for dinner, lunch and breakfast. Paste these pictures on sheets of paper labeled dinner menu, luncheon menu, breakfast menu, making certain you have a complete meal pictured on each menu sheet. Draw pictures of foods you cannot find.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Plan for a party in your room, arranging your chairs or desks so that they are placed similar to airline seating. Choose a “steward” and “stewardess” to serve milk, sandwiches, and cookies.
2.	Invite the Home Economics teacher, a chef, or a parent to talk to the class about the importance of the right kind of diet and menu planning. Ask a pilot to tell you about the physical examination he must pass in order to have a pilot’s license. Ask him about the need for proper food in order to keep in good physical condition.
(.Photo by Ewing Krainin for Town & Country Magazine)