The Flight Crew
Being on an imaginary trip you have an advantage over those who really fly the Atlantic, for you may visit the flight deck or pilot’s compartment, called the bridge.
Passengers are not allowed to go to the pilot’s compartment during a real flight because their presence would interfere with the operation of the airplane. This is a rule of the Civil Aeronautics Board. However, you can imagine that you are standing behind the Captain and his crew.
The flight officers in the picture opposite do not include the Captain. The man in the background with his back toward you is the First Officer, or co-pilot. The officer in the foreground of the picture is the Flight Engineer. The Flight Engineer doesn’t fly the airplane at all. He never touches the flight controls, but he does control all the engines. The instrument dials he is watching and the control switches in his right hand are for adjusting the four engines of the Clipper.
In the picture on this page are the main officers of the flight crew: the Captain, First Officer, Navigator, and Flight Engineer. Also present is a ground officer — the Flight Dispatcher.
Two or three hours before the scheduled time of take-off, the members of the flight crew meet at the airport to plan the flight. They have before them all the information which has been collected about weather over the route.
This weather report has theanswers to a number of important questions:
1.	Are weather conditions satisfactory to assure the safety of the flight? If the answer is “No,” the flight is cancelled, and that ends it. If the answer is “Yes,” the Captain and his helpers continue with their planning.
2.	What route shall we fly?
The weather map tells the flight crew which route will be the best for the shortest flight in terms of time. An airplane flying with the wind, a tailwind, goes faster. An airplane flying against the wind, a headwind, goes slower. The weather map shows how to take advantage of tailwinds or helping winds and how to avoid headwinds.
3.	What altitude shall we fly?
Wind direction is often different at different altitudes. Weather reports give direction and speed of winds at different altitudes, so the Captain decides not only the best route, but also the best altitude at which he will fly the Clipper.
4.	What route will be most comfortable for the passengers?
Weather has a definite effect upon the comfort of the passengers. Choice of route and altitude can make the difference between a smooth or rough flight. Therefore, the Captain must consider not only speed and economy of fuel, but also the route and altitude at which he will find the smoothest air for the comfort of his passengers.
THINGS TO DO by yourself with your parents, or friends
1. Select and read books from the library that will tell you about the weather and its effect on airplanes and your daily living.
THINGS TO DO in school
1. Find pictures for your bulletin board of the pilot’s compartment or cockpit. Look for pictures of the instruments the pilot and flight engineer must learn to understand and use and make a list of the names of the important instruments, telling what they do. The book, Aviation Dictionary for Boys and Girls by Leslie Neville, McGraw-Hill & Co., New York, may help you to do this. Make an instrument panel board and pretend you are a pilot or flight engineer.