At the
The day for your flight to London has arrived.
You go to Idle wild Airport in New York City early. The airline has requested that you check in early because there is much more checking of documents to be done on an international flight than for one entirely within the country. That is all right, because you want to have a chance to see what goes on.
New York City’s new International Airport at Idlewild is one of the biggest in the world; its runways are each about two miles long. The drive from the Belt Parkway up the roadway to the Administration Building takes about five minutes for our airport limousine. In the terminal are ticket counters for more than a dozen international airlines, plus customs and immigration offices, restaurants, a drug store, shops, hotel rooms and even a bank. The big hangars and shops provide for servicing of a hundred or more aircraft at one time.
Airplanes are coming and going at all hours of the day and night. On the concrete ramp in front of the Administration Building right now is a
Airport
Clipper of the Constellation type which is taking aboard a load of air cargo, some of which will be delivered as far away as India. (See picture.)
Being a passenger on a big airliner is about the most thrilling thing in aviation. But remember that the cargo business and the air mail are equally important to the business of air transportation and trade of all countries which make up our “One World”.
Some Clippers carry cargo only, and such planes carry more than seven tons of boxes and packages. The passenger Clippers also carry cargo and mail. An endless list of products has taken to the air. A few of the more unusual shipments include baby chicks, orchids, tropical fish, penicillin and other medicines, and furniture. Yes—furniture. A new hotel in the Caribbean had all its equipment and furniture shipped by Clipper — twenty-two plane loads of it. And the cost was lower than it would have been by any other shipping method.
But time has slipped away. Your flight is being announced on the loud speaker right now, so you’d better get to the gate from which you will board the plane.
THINGS TO DO by yourself , with your parents, or friends
1.	Look for pictures in magazines or newspapers of private and commercial cargo airplanes. Paste the pictures in a scrapbook and write a paragraph or two under each picture describing the plane and its use.
2.	Make a model airport. Include administration building, hangars, control tower, runways, automobile parking areas, and other buildings you may see at the airport or read about in books and magazines. You may want to make or buy model airplanes to use on the airport.
3.	Draw or collect pictures of planes being loaded with various cargos.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Visit an airport to study the facilities in the administration building and hangars. Plan another trip to the weather bureau and control tower. After your visits, prepare a dialogue in which the control tower operator gives instructions to the pilot.
2.	Visit and interview a businessman in your community who uses air express to ship or receive cargo such as food, flowers, clothing or newspapers.