Now Boarding at Gate 1!
Is that you, bringing up the rear with a coat over one arm and a big hand bag hooked over the other? Or are you the young man at the foot of the steps hurrying to catch up with his fellow passengers?
We took so long watching the loading of the Constellation that you were not first in line, as we had intended you to be. But that does not matter, for there is a seat for every passenger. The ticket is not sold to you unless space is reserved.
You don’t have to think about baggage. That was checked when the ticket was examined at the counter. The baggage check is stapled to the ticket and the bags will be delivered at the airport in London.
For the night portion of the flight, you may have a berth if you wish to pay extra for it, or you may prefer to tip back the “Sleeperette” Chair so that you will have a comfortable lounge chair. There is no extra charge for this.
More about sleeping arrangements later. Right now all you want is to get aboard. This is the big moment you have been planning for.
The picture shows only a few of your fellow passengers. Altogether, there are fifty-one passengers on the President Special flight. That seems like a lot of people for one airplane, but the Double-Decked Clipper is so huge that there is plenty of room to be comfortable. (Take a peek at page 25 right now for an idea of size.) The new Super-6 Douglas for the Rainbow Clipper Tourist Service carries eighty-three passengers. In tourist type air service some of the deluxe arrangements are omitted — more passengers are carried and the price of a ticket is much less. The difference is in service and comforts only, for the airplane operation is exactly the same as for the deluxe schedules.
There is room to move around from one place to another — from your
seat to the lounge, to the wash room, to any place except the bridge (pilot’s compartment) and the cargo compartment.
Passengers ordinarily are not permitted to visit the bridge. Such visits would interrupt the work of the crew and are prohibited by Federal regulations, except in special circumstances. Later on we’ll try to persuade the Captain that the circumstances are special and extraordinary, since your flight, after all, is imaginary. It is quite possible that he will grant our request to let you visit him at the controls.
Right now the stewardess is waiting, as you will see on the next page.
THINGS TO DO by yourself \ with your parents, or friends
1.	Telephone an airline reservation worker in or near your city to find out how many pounds of baggage can be carried free to London and how much it costs for extra pounds of luggage.
2.	Look through magazines to find pictures for your scrapbook of a Lockheed Constellation, Douglas DC-6, and a Boeing Stratocruiser. Purchase and build a model of one of these airplanes or another type of passenger or cargo plane.
3.	Telephone your airport flight operator to request a copy of the rules and regulations that private and commercial aircraft must follow.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Invite an airline ticket agent or a travel agent to talk to your class to tell the costs of tickets and other information you may want to find out about a trip to London or some other city in the world.
2.	Draw a picture of the inside of an airliner showing different things passengers may do. To help you do this, find a picture in a magazine or travel folder.
8
(Photo by Ewing Krainin for Town & Country Magazine)