Clipper Maintenance
During the time that the Flying Clipper is en route, the Flight Engineer has the responsibility for keeping the four engines and all the controls in efficient working order. His job is to see that the engines are performing properly so that the airplane may maintain safe, comfortable flight. Another necessary duty of the Flight Engineer is to keep a detailed written log of the performance of every engine, and of every other operating part of the airplane.
To assist him in these tasks he has an electronic device which Pan American World Airways calls the Engine Analyzer. It would be difficult to explain here how this electronic Engine Analyzer works, but we can say that it gives a reading of what is going on in each cylinder of the Clipper’s powerful engines. It tells the Flight Engineer that this spark plug is all right, or that it is not so good. It gives him the same information for hundreds of other parts. It enables him to make corrections which help provide smooth flight while you, the passenger, sit in your seat or sleep in your berth with no thought that any such thing is going on to make your journey swift, comfortable and safe. The information the flight engineer collects from the Engine Analyzer helps him prepare the log. This log helps the inspectors and mechanics in preparing a “Strato” Clipper for its next flight. (Picture opposite.)
The work that the inspectors and mechanics do to make your Clipper ready for flight consists of hundreds of inspections, adjustments and replacements, which are done on a regular schedule as the Clipper accumulates flight time. This schedule is continually being revised as experience is gained with service.
The Clipper’s engines are interchangeable, since any engine suitable for use in the airplane in which we are making this flight may be installed in any other Clipper of the same model. Spare engines are available at major airports along the routes flown by these Clippers. Should there be need for a change of engines in London, for example, the engine will be available and can be installed there. Then the one removed will be sent to an overhaul base for inspection, repair and rebuilding.
When a particular engine has flown its 1,000 hours, it is removed and
sent to the overhaul shop, and a newly reconditioned engine is installed in its place. Such an engine change may take place during the servicing of the airplane at Idlewild as in the picture opposite, or at some airport along the route, if the Flight Engineer and the Station Inspector feel that it is desirable.
Similarly, other new parts will be substituted for those showing signs of wear during the overhaul of the airplane. Some changes can be accomplished at service points along the route.
Thousands of adjustments, revisions and replacements take place during the major maintenance overhaul. An airplane as large as a “Strato” Clipper has parts that are not easy to reach. That is why it is necessary to have the movable working stand, which is called a “service dock”. As you see in the picture, it has steps to the high parts of the “Strato” Clipper. It contains places for tools, electrical outlets, lines for air pressure and water — all arranged on the work stand so they will be available when needed.
There are a number of working stands so that several “Strato” Clippers may be serviced at the same time.
All this is required to make it possible for you to fly over the oceans.
You are not told about it when you buy your ticket to London, but it goes on every day for every flight.
THINGS TO DO by yourself, with your parents, or friends
1. Build and fly a model airplane. Notice how the wind affects its flight. You can also see this by throwing a paper glider against or with the direction the wind is blowing. Learn the names and functions of the airplane control surfaces.
THINGS TO DO in school
1. Read about the history of flight. Discuss the many different ways men attempted to fly. Make a mural of the history of flight from the information you find from books, pictures, and visual aids.
22