Weather Aids
On page 12 we referred to the weather map. On this page there is a sample weather map, showing at the upper center, an area of low pressure. (See the word “low” enclosed in a circle.) The center of a high pressure area is at the upper right hand corner of the map. (See the word “high” beside the pin.) At the bottom of the map there is another “high”. A “high” usually indicates good weather, and a “low” indicates clouds, rain or snow.
On the page opposite are two ground communications employees. Between them is a teletype machine. These two men send or relay
weather reports and information having to do with the safe operation of the airplane.
The communications systems of the airlines use radio, ocean cables, teletype machines, telegraph, telephones, air mail and ordinary mail. The communications system used by air transportation probably is the largest and most complicated that exists for any industry.
THINGS TO DO by yourself \ with your parents, or friends
1.	Make a collection of weather maps and reports published in your newspaper. Note how often the weather forecast from day to day was correct.
2.	Listen to the weather report given on the radio during the news broadcasts every morning or evening. Make and use your own weather instruments, such as a rain gauge, barometer and wind vane. The book, Everyday Weather and How It Works by Herman Schneider, McGraw-Hill & Co., New York, will tell you how to do this.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Prepare an oral or written report on the men who invented and developed the radio, the telegraph and the telephone. An encyclopedia or dictionary will help you find the names of the inventors and something about them.
2.	Make individual or a class weather calendar recording on it such data as temperature, sky condition, type of precipitation, wind, etc. This information maybe obtained by telephoning the U. S. Weather Bureau Office, listening
to the radio weather report, observations, or readings from weather instruments in the classroom or school. Keep the school informed by posting a daily weather forecast in the main hall.
3.	Choose a radio announcer in your class to give the weather report each morning. Have a “reporter” write the information on the blackboard.