
Landing at London
Landing the airplane calls for a great deal of skill on the part of the pilot, his crew and the people on the ground who assist.
As you approach London, the Captain is in radio communication with the control tower at the airport. He asks for information about weather, wind direction and velocity and landing instructions. The control tower operator tells him which runway to use and gives any special information he feels the Captain should have.
There are also radio aids to help the Captain land the airplane. If our landing is at night, lights guide him to the airport and runway.
After the wheels touch the ground the Captain brings the airplane to a stop and taxies to the unloading area. The portable stairway is wheeled into place. You leave the airplane (de-plane) and go into the passenger terminal to clear through custom and immigration areas. You have entered another part of “One World”. You are ready now to see places that are new and interesting, to get firsthand experience with the customs of another land and to get acquainted with some of your neighbors in “Aviation’s One World.”
THINGS TO DO by yourself \ with your parents, or friends
1.	Locate on the map the countries from which your ancestors came. Find out about these countries and look for items in newspapers about them.
2.	Collect pictures of the British Isles and other countries you may want to learn about. Paste these in your scrapbook and label.
THINGS TO DO in school
1.	Plan airplane trips and measure distances to cities around the world. Find out how many hours it would take to go by airplane. Compare this time with travel by boat, train, and bus. Geography books and some travel bureaus may help you with this information.
2.	Play this game. A leader asks the question, “Guess where my Clipper has landed? ” Using the map the children try to guess the name of the city by asking questions describing the country or area in which it may be located, such as: “Is the city located in a warm climate?” The leader may answer with only a “yes” or “no”. When enough clues have been given, someone may try to guess the name of the city.
3.	List the materials used in the building of the airplane. From what countries do these materials come? Geography books and encyclopedias will help you find the answers.
4.	Write letters to children living in other countries, asking them about their work, play, schools and homes.
24