Pan Am keeps you going once you get to Florida.
You’ll get one of Florida’s best car rental bargains from Alamo Rent-a-Car. A beautiful Pontiac J2000 with automatic transmission and air conditioning. For one full week with unlimited mileage. For just $44.50 per person (based on two persons, regardless of total sharing the car. Cost for the week for one person renting the car is $89.) Offer available through March 31,1982.
Here’s the deal. Be sure to make your car reservation in advance. You must pick up your car on the day you arrive. Present your Pan Am boarding pass to Alamo at the airport to get this special rate. Pay for gas, optional insurances and taxes locally. Drop-off charges, if any, are not included. There are certain age requirements for the car and a deposit may be required by Alamo.
If a Pontiac J2000 is not available when you arrive, a similar size car will be made available at the same rate.
Keep your Pontiac longer for $20 per day. Or
$89 for an additional week. Unlimited mileage. It makes a great bargain even better. And you’ll get to see a lot more of Florida. (Additional week charge is the combined two person rate.)
There’s more. When you pick up your car, you’ll get another bonus. Discount coupons to Sea World, Silver Springs/Weeki Wachee, Circus World, Cypress Gardens, Busch Gardens, Wet n’ Wild and other popular Florida attractions. So your car will come in very handy.
Don’t delay. Get out of the cold and into the sun. Pan Am can take you to Miami, Ft. Lauderdale/ Hollywood, Tampa/St. Pete, West Palm Beach,
Orlando, Sarasota/Bradenton or Fort Myers. And when you take advantage of our rental car deal, you’ll get to see a lot more places... at your own pace.
Good deals don’t last forever. March 31,1982, is the last day you can pick up your car and still get this low rate. So take advantage of this offer and spend a wonderful week or more seeing Florida your way.
Pan Am makes flying to Florida easy. With nonstop flights from New York, Washington, D.C., New Orleans, Houston, Los Angeles and San Francisco. And with convenient connections from Seattle/Tacoma, Detroit, Las Vegas, San Diego and Phoenix.
Reservations are easy. Just call your Travel Agent, Corporate Travel Department or Pan Am. They’ll have you on your way in no time.
We’ll get you there in style. When you fly Pan Am, you’ll be getting our best. Both on the ground and in the air. So you’ll start enjoying your vacation long before you land. That’s the Pan Am tradition.
All’s fare. You’ll find you can save a lot when you fly Pan Am. Check our low Florida fares and get going. With our car for one week for $89 with unlimited mileage, plus those special discounts to Florida’s great attractions, you just can’t miss. Make this the winter you take yourself to Florida. With Pan Am.