AS A CLIPPER PASSENGER, YOU are naturally the object of a large share of our attention. Just how large a share is indicated on this page. It condenses much of the information you’d find in our Passenger Service Manual—a book prepared to instruct our personnel in their most important task—the job of serving you.
When you are still planning atrip.
To aid you in planning a trip on Pan American we have offices and Travel Agents throughout the world who are equipped to provide you with any information you may need. These representatives tell you what to see, where to stay, what sight-seeing and side trips can be made, and answer your questions on weather, clothing and anything you may wish to know. They are delighted to serve you. They can help you when you need information on where to obtain passports, visas and any necessary certificates, for example. Their success is measured by your satisfaction.
When you ask questions . Noquestionyou
may have in mind is too unimportant for the proper Pan American personnel to answer. If the staff member to whom you speak doesn’t have the answer handy, he or she will refer you to the proper person.
When you come to buy your ticket .
When you are ready to buy your ticket our Sales Representatives or Travel Agent will advise you on necessary travel documents, customs inspections and the best methods of carrying travel funds. They will make your reservations on flights most convenient to your wishes. You may stop over at any point along the line and they will arrange it. They will make sure when you purchase your ticket that you have everything in your possession which complies with the formalities of entry into the countries to which you are to travel. Many on our sales staffs speak more than one language—a real help when you aren’t acquainted with unfamiliar words. What’s more, our personnel are trained to assist you so that, should your travel plans include an elaborate itinerary, including perhaps more than one mode of transportation, we can make the through ticketing for you —and at no additional cost to you.
When you reach the airport . upon
your arrival at the airport whether by private car, taxi or limousine services there will be (almost everywhere) uniformed porters to care for your baggage and passenger service representatives to direct you through the necessary departure formalities.
Baggage. Uniformed employees will weigh your baggage, take it and see that it is placed on the airplane without any further bother to you. Expert traffic representatives work in cooperation with government agencies to clear your arrival in, or departure from, the country with a minimum of effort on your part. In many airports we have refreshment service available so that you may have a snack before boarding your plane.
If There’s a Wait. Should unforeseen conditions delay the arrival or departure of your Clipper at the airport, you will be advised of the revised arrival or departure time.
Wh EN YOU’RE ABOARD THE CLIPPER .
Pan American was the first to place stewards on air transports and more recently added the feminine touch in the form of stewardesses. Their unseen duties are too numerous to mention but they are at the airport long before your departure to be sure everything is aboard for your comfort. They are responsible for the aircraft clearance papers so that upon your arrival at the next airport all governmental regulations for clearance of passengers and aircraft are a smooth well-oiled function.
A Helping Hand. When you board the Clipper they are there to greet you, assist in seating, putting away coats and small packages which we all seem to acquire at the last moment. They have the latest newspapers and magazines, a. game kit, or writing paper in the event you want to while away some time.
If You Want to Sleep. If you desire to sleep they have blankets and pillows for your comfort. If you are traveling with children, on advance notice they will have special baby food. They will help mothers in preparing formulas and even provide disposable diapers for your convenience.
"What’s That?’’ If you desire information on a passing point of interest they will supply it. If you wish they will check with the Captain as to estimated arrival time at the next station, altitude, speed of aircraft. Tasty between-meal snacks and delicious meals will be served you while in flight.
Movies Aloft. Did you ever see a Broadway movie thousands of feet in the air while winging your way to another land? With a further thought for your entertainment Pan American has installed sound movie projectors in the aircraft. You just sit back in your comfortable Clipper seat, relax and enjoy the film that you wanted to see at your favorite theatre.
A FEW ’’SPECIALS”• Here are little things you might not think about.
Be sure to keep your watch set in accordance with the change of time. The steward or stewardess will help. Don’t change too much currency into the money of a country you are visiting when you are only planning a short stay. Beware of your fountain pen. Some are especially designed with an eye to air travel and won’t leak aloft. However, older pens that were made for ground use will undoubtedly cause trouble at flight altitudes.
Be sure and mention the fact that you are carrying a camera as the regulations of some countries prohibit its use in the air. If in doubt check with our representative at the airport or the steward in the aircraft.
As YOU LEAVE THE CLIPPER . Again our ground staff is awaiting your arrival. They will greet you at the airport, see that your baggage is delivered and assist in the inspection by the customs inspectors. They will help you in filling out necessary forms and aid you in securing hotel or continuing travel reservations. This service is almost the same at every airport with the exception of the individual governmental requirements.
Your baggage will be placed in the limousine or bus which will take you directly to your hotel or Pan American’s down-town office. Both air crew and ground staff will have a genuine interest in knowing how much you enjoyed your Clipper trip. If there is any way that service might be improved they’d like to know about it.
Before we say "au revoir” to you .
Once you’ve flown via Pan American World Airways Flying Clipper we hope that you will be "sold” not only on the desirability of air travel—but air travel the Pan American iv ay.
We don’t feel that our job has ended when you leave us at your destination.
We hope you will fly with us, often, whenever you wish to reach any of the more than 40 countries and territories served by "The System of the Flying Clippers.”
Whenever you wish information or assistance in planning a trip we’ll do our best to serve you, if you will contact our nearest sales office or your own Travel Agent.
And, whatever your impressions of your Clipper trip, won’t you write and tell us about them. We’ll be glad to have the comments—coming from you.
5