“All aboard*’ to see the worfd.
Courteous stewards and stewardesses.
“Business as usual" —aloft.
Comfortable, full-length berths.
Well-equipped
lavatories.
Roomy, reclining chairs.
Time out for letter writing.
Pleasant traveling companions.
THE COMFORT

Many new features to increase the comfort and convenience of your Flying Clipper trip are incorporated in the latest-type transport planes now under construction for Pan American World Airways System routes.
Among the new types of Flying Clippers already in service or shortly to take to the air are:
Four-engine Clippers, to cruise at better than 300 miles an hour, with a range of more than 1500 miles.
Double-decked, four-engine Clippers capable, for example, of flying non-stop from New York to London in less than 12 hours.
An even faster type of Clipper, utilizing both turbo-supercharged engines and exhaust jet thrust for maximum propulsion.
All three of these Clipper types are designed to incorporate the latest advances in comfort for passengers. Ample provision has been made as well for the carriage of Clipper Express and airmail to speed goods and communications between continents in a matter of a few flying hours.
The air-conditioning aboard these new Clippers has been designed to provide passengers with constant, comfortable atmospheric conditions, so that passengers flying, for example, at 18,000 feet altitudes would experience the same comfort as at half that altitude.
Some of the other conveniences planned for Flying Clipper passengers are illustrated on these pages.
For 19 years Pan American World Airways has been introducing new facilities and services designed to make travel via Flying Clipper the finest possible. Among these facilities and services which Pan American was the first American air transportation company to introduce to the traveling public are:
Service of aircraft flight stewards, assigned to care for in-flight needs of passengers.
Passenger service staffs* at airports to assist passengers with otherwise bothersome details on arrival or departure.
Service of meals in-flight.
Operation of all-expense air tours, simplifying pleasure travel for many.
Creation and promotion of a credit-discount card plan for regular air travelers.
Installation of meal-service galleys aboard aircraft.
Ordering and operation of high-altitude aircraft for smooth "over-weather” flying.
In addition, Pan American was first to pioneer and put into regular operation such safety innovations as long-range weather forecasting, engines accessible in flight, ultra high frequency radio communication and instrument flying technique.
*See following page.