A portrait of China, part of A World of Neighbc
CHINA is old. At least forty centuries of intellectual and material development are woven into her story. For those two-score centuries Chinese have been famous for cultivation—of the soil and of human relationships. Philosophers like Confucius and Lao-tse taught them in the latter. As for the former, nine-tenths of the Chinese still are farmers, cultivating the rich valley soils as well as the arid mountainous regions.
Stone Age men lived in the Yellow River Valley about 5,000 years ago. From there civilization spread over the plains, deserts and mountain steppes that mark the face of present-day China. By 500 B.C. agriculture, irrigation, written laws, wheeled vehicles and well-developed city government were established parts of Chinese life.
While Europe was just stepping from the Middle Ages, China was making fine pottery and printing books from movable type. And Chinese carved ivories, enamels and rich brocades were exciting admiration in the "outside” world.
I ALL TALES OF MARCO POLO . It was the Venetian, Marco Polo, in the 13th Century, who gave China its first recorded contact with the West. The tall tales and bartered goods he brought back spurred Europe to find this
New Land, destined to give the world knowledge of gunpowder, the compass, printing and weaving.
Four hundred years later, European merchants in sailing ships followed daring explorers on the new-found sea route to the Far East. With them went Western ideas, religion, education, medicine and science.
Then thrifty Yankees in their Clipper ships sailed to Canton for jades, silks, ivories and tea. Today in many half-hidden Canton curio shops you can find Early American glassware, British chinaware, ships’ silver service, etc., all brought to China a century ago from all over the world.
It was the Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways System, the logical successors to those earlier Clippers, that a hundred years later were to blaze a sky trail from the United States to China.
To help stop invaders, the Emperor Chin Shih Huan Ti, 300 years before Christ, began building the Great Wall. For 15 years 300,000 troops plus innumerable prisoners of war and criminals toiled to erect Man’s mightiest structure, a rampart 2,000 miles long, across mountains and deserts. Twenty-two centuries later it still stands for all to see, a barrier 25 feet thick and up to 30 feet high, the largest fortification the world ever knew.
China occupies a fourth of Asia and has one-fifth of the world’s population. Approximately 475,000,000 people in-