MATIN” America is the name applied to that vast portion of the earth’s land area lying south and east of the BL, United States of America. It includes Mexico, the Caribbean countries, Central America and the continent of South America.
From north to south Latin America covers more than half the distance from pole to pole and has approximately the same population as the United States of America.
The air traveler, speeding over the inter-American and bz/ni-American routes of Pan American World Airways System, can see spread out below him the whole panorama of the past, present and indications of the future of these lands —a never-to-be-forgotten experience.
These are the lands of romance, where flashing eyes and twinkling toes keep time to the rhythm of the tango and the rhumba.
Travelers can fly high above the Andes range, longest and highest in the world, that runs like a mighty backbone from top to toe of South America. They can explore in arm chair comfort the green vastness of the Amazon, in volume the largest river in the world. They can "do” the big cities — mingle with the Cariocas of romantic Rio de Janeiro, "Paris of the New World,” tour bustling Buenos Aires, Latin America’s largest city, see the ancient and modern side by side in glamorous Mexico City, or watch the expansion
of Sao Paulo, the city that has been called "fastest-growing in the world.”
If their adventurous tastes run off the beaten path they can, for example, visit timeless Taxco, an exquisite, unspoiled bit of Old Spain, transplanted to Mexico, or explore the mysterious, starkly-beautiful ruined temples of the Mayas in Yucatan. It is possible via Flying Clipper to leave the United States of America one day, connect with Pan Ameri-can-Grace Airways at the Canal Zone and next day be in Peru, to see the Peruvian fortresses of the once-mighty Inca empire, with Chile—land of emerald lakes and shimmering nitrate-rich deserts—just beyond. Or, heading eastward, they can wing over the pearl-like stepping stones of the Caribbean islands, where Columbus’s caravels rode the waves and where, on moonlit nights, they say the ghosts of Drake, Morgan and Captain Kidd haunt the coral sands.
Latin America had been touched by European explorers and treasure-seekers at several points before St. Augustine, oldest European settlement in the United States, was founded (in 1565). Much of Latin America had colonies nearly a century before the first permanent English settlers landed at Plymouth Rock in 1620. And the struggles for independence led by Bolivar, O’Higgins, Hidalgo, San Martin, Tous-saint l’Ouverture and others followed by only a few years the American Revolution.