THE MEDITERRANEAN THE NEAR EAST
nn
WM\
Arch of Constantine and the Colosseum, Rome
marks of the mighty Roman Empire . . . the Colosseum, the silent city of Pompeii, Rome itself—seat of Catholic faith— the existing works of its great painters, sculptors and composers, these and many more will again make Italy hostess to tens of thousands of tourists every year. Here is Venice, the romantic city of canals, marble bridges and gay gondoliers singing in the moonlight. But Italy has a modern loveliness, too. Her rural settings are enhanced by vineyards, groves and orchards, and many of her little hamlets have not yet felt the influence of a mechanized world. In her cities, balcony-bordered streets suggest a medieval atmosphere.
Off the toe of Italy is Malta, stout-hearted fortress island, rich in history and romance dating back to the Crusaders. Here are the cave of Calypso, Roman villas, Christian catacombs, and emblems of heraldry, lavish carvings, tapestries, and Moorish and Italian paintings.
The country of Greece, east of the Italian boot and at the extremity of the Balkan Peninsula, is a land to which we owe much of our present culture. It has given us our democratic form of government; it has set the foundation for our arts and sciences; it represents our tradition of sportsmanship—its ideals of freedom are in part those for which World War II was fought. Greece was the seat of the first great empire the world ever knew, and in spite of her recent occupation by Axis forces, the spirit of that ancient civilization lives on. The modern Greek differs somewhat in appearance and language from his ancestors, but many of his ideals are the same. His country, too, has kept many visible records of the past in art and architecture; the imposing Acropolis, home of the Gods, is perhaps the most inspiring. Athens, the fountainhead of Greek inspiration, is in its way as modern as Paris and New York. From the Acropolis you can look across the Bay of Salamis where Xerxes came with his fleet of a thousand conquering ships.
An ORIENTAL FLAVOR • East of Greece is Turkey, a center of the Moslem religion. The Turks first appeared in history as wandering tribes driving westward from inland Asia and conquering easily all nations standing in their path. Their momentum carried them even to Vienna, but they could not retain their conquests and were finally driven back to the area they now hold. In spite of her heritage, Turkey is surprisingly Western. Her law is civil, not religious. She has a first-class educational system, her cities are becoming modernized and her agricultural methods are becoming more mechanized. Behind all this, nevertheless, is the
flavor of ancient Islam, supported by the lingering evidence of the great and dominating empire that used to be.
Few have not heard of Istanbul (Constantinople), fabled city on the Golden Horn.
Turkey generally is classified in that group of countries referred to as the "Near and Middle East.” The rest of the group are: Syria, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Palestine, Trans-Jordan and Saudi Arabia. These nations are the "Bible lands,” the cradles of Mohammedanism, Judaism and Christianity. Here are the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, ancient Mesopotamia and mystic Bagdad (once a center of Islam), Damascus and the Sea of Galilee, Jerusalem and Mt. Ararat.
From all over the world Christians and Jews journey to visit the birthplaces of their faiths and to witness Biblical scenes and places firsthand.
Camel caravan trails • In Palestine is the
site of the ancient walled city of Jericho, whose "walls came tumbling down,” and the Dead Sea beneath whose salty waves are said to have disappeared the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Here too is modern Tel Aviv.
But even this section of the world, steeped in ancient philosophy, has not been able to withstand the influence of modern civilization. The old dusty camel trails which used to wind over the deserts no longer lead the caravan on its way; now streamlined, air-conditioned buses cover the routes in a fraction of the time. Motorboats travel on the Sea of Galilee, and every so often a seaplane settles on its surface. The "fiery furnace” of the Bible is now an Iraq oil field!
At Persepolis (in Iran)—the desert city which he built— is the rock tomb of Darius the Great, whose military campaigns reached into northern India and Greece.
Previous to World War II, this area was mainly agricultural. The fertile valley of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers and the rich strip of land on the Palestine coast yielded many fruits and grain. Irrigation extended the fertile areas. Sheep farming became popular and in addition to wool, silkworm and cotton raising increased in volume. But its most valuable natural resource today is oil. American companies laid pipelines from the inland wells across the deserts of Syria and Trans-Jordan to the Mediterranean Sea, and the oil is pumped into tankers for shipment to world markets. Iran is the fourth country in the world in oil production; Iraq is eighth. Industries are springing up all over the Near East: oil refineries such as the one at Abadan in Iran and flour mills, such as those at Haifa in Palestine.
tm
kl


Robert Cot'ege al
\slanbu'
Turkey


"To market, to market” in a Portuguese town
Rare
sUks to'
sate in ;
I bazaar
The Parthenon on the Acropolis in Athens