
A portrait of Africa, part of A World of Neighbors
Rome. But the Empire of Rome extended its rule over much of northern Africa, as half-buried cities prove.
Much of North Africa is part of the world of Islam, where ancient traditions and beliefs still regulate a large part of the life.
North Africa is a land of contrasts: along the coast there are hot, dry summers and agricultural areas (grain fields and vineyards); the forested mountains inland have heavy winter snows, excellent for skiing, while the true desert begins south of the mountains and the plateaus.
The desert communities clustered about the oases were founded in the Middle Ages. For centuries caravans have crossed the wastes with ivory, slaves, and merchandise.
In the towns one notices the red fezzes of the Moslems, in the southern Sahara the indigo blue costume and faceshielding turban of the camel-riders, and in Libya the fine white silk "gerd” (cloak) of the more well-to-do.
Markets are both trading and social centers, with dancing girls, singers, fortune tellers and magicians.
To the east lies Egypt. Herodotus wrote: "Egypt contains more wonders than any other land and is preeminent above all countries . .. for works that one can hardly describe.”
Travelers can easily be transported back through 3,000 years of history merely by journeying up the Nile. There, camels heavily laden with corn and sugar cane, donkeys
r^VARKEST AFRICA” is true nowadays in a limited 1 sense only. There is considerable in Africa that is L»*' obscure. But there is, also, much that is bright.
The meanings of the words "Mediterranean” and "Sahara” explain much about this vast continent. Mediterranean, from the Latin, meaning sea "in the middle of the land” indicates the role that this inland "ocean” has played as a highway linking north Africa with southern Europe.
On the contrary, "Sahara” is Arabic for wilderness. This sand sea, one of the world’s most effective barriers, stretches like a shifting dike 1,000 miles wide and 3,000 miles long across the heart of the continent, and effectively cut off for centuries almost all land contact between north and south.
Ancient and colorful history . it is
southern Africa that is the home of the true, native Africans, the Negroes, while most of northern Africa has been European or Asiatic in influence since the great Arab invasion of the seventh century. Prior to that, the Egyptians in their Nile Valley had developed perhaps the first political system that could be called a state.
Carthage, founded by the Phoenicians, itself grew to a great state and rivaled Rome for the Mediterranean-world supremacy. Hannibal with his elephants almost destroyed