THE UNION of
SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
Part of the Kremlin, from across the Moskva
No trip to Moscow would be complete without a visit to the Lenin Library with its 7,000,000 volumes, largest in the world, and the Tretjakov art gallery.
Moscow has been the chief industrial city of the U.S.S.R. and is one of the great commercial centers of Europe as well as a natural center for the internal commerce of the U.S.S.R.
Leningrad (once Saint Petersburg and also Petrograd) was the nation’s capital for many years under the czars.
Its Hermitage Museum ranks among the most important in Europe.
Tr I BUTE TO LENIN • The name of the city is a tribute to the man who established the Soviet Republic.
During World War II, the city lived for a long time under constant siege by Axis forces, but was never taken.
The extremely wide boulevards, public buildings and palaces have made Leningrad famous. The fortress of Peter and Paul was erected by Peter the Great, the first emperor of Russia. It was used to detain political prisoners and is now a museum.
When World War I opened, it was a splendid city of 2,000,000, the fifth city of Europe and eighth in the world.
The Museum of the Revolution (the former Winter Palace) was the largest and in some ways most celebrated royal palace in the world. It could accommodate 6500 people. Three empresses designed and built it. Its bewild-eringly-numerous suites are adorned with numerous and valuable sculptures and paintings.
On one of the islands in the Neva River is the little wooden house in which Peter the Great lived when he began to build the city.
Throughout history, the rivers of the U.S.S.R. have been the great highways of commerce and civilization. Down the Dnieper the Northmen descended against Constantinople, and Greek civilization reached Kiev by the same route. The great invasion of Genghis Khan left its mark on the face of the land for many years.
The Caucasus mountains, in the southeastern corner of the U.S.S.R., include the highest mountain in Europe, Mount Elbruz (18,465 ft.) and other lofty and beautiful peaks rivaling the Alps in grandeur. The great Georgian Military Highway leads through much of this scenic section.
South of the Caucasus is Tbilisi (Tiflis), capital of the Georgian S.S.R., near which is the birthplace of Stalin, Premier of the U.S.S.R. and Generalissimo of the Red Army, Tbilisi, with its typical oriental quarter, is famous for its university, theatres and printing presses. Georgia’s
history is more than 3,000 years old. Batumi is one of the greatest petroleum ports in the world, and also ships manganese ore and raw silk.
Vast GOLDEN WHEAT FIELDS • The Ukrainian S.S.R. contains more than 40,000,000 people (one-fifth the population of the entire U.S.S.R.) and its vast golden wheat fields give it the name of granary of the U.S.S.R. At one time, 100,000,000 bushels of wheat a year (25% of world wheat exports) were shipped from the Ukraine. Its rich black soil is invaluable for raising large crops.
The new industrial section of the Ukraine that was rapidly developing before the German invasion made use of the great power resources of the Dnieper State electric plant. One of the most highly developed coal fields in the U.S.S.R. is in the Donetz Basin, south of Kharkov. The oldest cathedral in the U.S.S.R. is in Kiev, the oldest of the famous cities of the Soviet Union.
In the rural sections of the Ukraine and to some extent in towns and cities, peasant costumes still are worn. Particularly on festival occasions, when folk music and dancing are performed, picturesque costumes can be seen in the Caucasus and the Cossack regions.
Siberia, once known as a land of exiles, is now rapidly becoming a country of flourishing industries and ambitiously planned life. Half again the size of the U.S.A. this vast area is now yielding increasing quantities of furs, minerals, lumber, farm produce, fish and dairy products.
Important, expanding Siberian cities include: Magnitogorsk, a thriving industrial city that grew to 145,000 from almost nothing in 10 years; Omsk, on the meeting place of trade routes between Central Russia and Turkestan; Irkutsk, an attractive, important trading center on the Trans-Siberian R.R. and caravan trails to China; Tomsk, an educational center with important manufacturing plants; and Vladivostok, the U.S.S.R.’s "window in the East,” the port through which huge quantities of Lend-Lease supplies from the U.S.A. passed in World War II.
In centuries-old Samarkand, in the Uzbek S.S.R. in Central Asia, are reminders of the city Alexander the Great destroyed in 329 B.C., when he invaded Central Asia, and of Tamerlane, the great Mongol conqueror, who made Samarkand one of the most magnificent cities in all Asia. The beautiful mausoleum, with its blue tiled dome, where Tamerlane and his family lie buried, is inside the old wall of the original city.
vs».--«-» '«•ESteM ■
A folk opera performed in a State Musical-Dramatic Theatre
Peterhof Palace, a Leningrad showplace
Monument to Field Marshal Kutuzov, who fought Napoleon
Yalta, resort in the Crimea