A portrait of the United States of America, part of A World of Neighbors
WHAT is the United States of America?” For one thing, it’s a representative democracy. It’s the "melting pot” for dozens of races, creeds and cultures. Also, it’s thousands of Main Streets, skyscraper offices and apartments, cabins in the wilderness, the corner drugstore and the melody of folk songs. Plus baseball, football, county fairs, radios, ice cream sodas, Saturday night movies and "Sunday go-to-meetin’.”
Most of all it’s something unique—the "American Way,” a land of free enterprise and the pioneer spirit—remembering the Past but looking to the Future.
Few nations can point to having done so much in so little time. Less than 400 years have passed since the first settlers landed on eastern shores.
A never-ceasing stream of explorers, missionaries, adventurers, traders and settlers poured in. Here was a land where pioneers could seek freedom and the right to found their own social and political orders. When by 1776 the desire for freedom conflicted with rule from across the sea, Americans fought for, and won, independence. A new nation was born, based on a Declaration of Independence and a Constitution.
I_URE OF THE UNKNOWN called the adventurous ever Westward. Over the Appalachians they climbed,
32
paddled down the Ohio and up the Missouri, rode horseback and covered wagons across the wide prairies. To a nation of 140,000,000 people their "will to dare” was to become a standard.
Gold beckoned some on to Pacific shores. Beyond the setting sun lay Cathay, and Americans in Clipper ships conquered the world’s widest ocean to reach it.
America’s wealth has been bountiful. The South’s plantation system thrived on cotton (the principal export) and tobacco. After a great civil war acid-tested the new nation’s unity, cosmopolitan cities (particularly in the Northeast) boomed with the Industrial Era.
Men still living remember the Battle of Gettysburg, and the tall, saddened man who there spoke the ageless words: ", . . that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.”
Access to vast raw materials such as iron ore, power and nearness to markets were responsible for the rise of great cities dotted across 3,000,000 square miles.
FrOM THESE CITIES have flowed the manufactures to give the United States its dominant position as World’s Leading Exporter, with half the world’s industrial capacity.
Mass production, the "trademark” of American industry, has accounted for this nation’s ability to supply both na-