Clipper Express
Clipper Express is the name applied to air express shipments carried via the Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways.
Today, concerns actually are Clipper-expressing entire shipments of merchandise. There is practically no business today that cannot use the international Clipper Express service of Pan American to advantage. A check with our offices will show how Clipper Express can benefit you.
While many samples, repair parts, etc., continue to make up a certain share of the cargo, a thousand other items (clothing, jewelry, watches, cigars, for example) are gaining precious days, even weeks, by being Clipper-expressed.
Important news is the fact that Pan American, with the best interests of shippers always in mind, was first in American air transportation to develop and provide single-document foreign express service and other time- and red-tape-cutting innovations covering air shipments.
Here are 10 reasons why it’s a good business buy:
1.	Gets the merchandise there faster.
2.	Lets the merchant cash in while the demands last.
3.	Dealers can operate on smaller inventory.
4.	Cuts down loss through obsolescence.
5.	Gives quicker turnover.
And it’s Good for you, too—
6.	Creates new markets—and widens old ones.
7.	Makes possible bulk manufacturing for domestic and foreign markets at the same time.
8.	Eliminates expensive warehousing.
9.	Less interest to pay on tied-up capital.
10.	Simplifies documents and bookkeeping.
For full information on how Clipper Express can help your business, consult the nearest Pan American office. No extra charge for special pickup in principal U. S. towns and cities by Railway Express Agency, Inc. You can ship Clipper Express to 4 continents.
Clipper Mail
The first regular commercial U. S.-flag international airmail service was operated 19 years ago, by Pan American World Airways. Clipper mail has, in the intervening years, kept pace with the need for faster, more frequent and more widespread airmail service between nations.
To hundreds of places throughout Latin America, to Alaska, across the Pacific to Asia, to Europe, Australasia and Africa have gone vital messages in the mail compartments of the Flying Clippers.
For many people, particularly businessmen, the advantages of Clipper mail service have been great, for example in the expediting of commercial correspondence.
Clipper Mul “facts”
(at time of publication)
What can go via Foreign Air Mail? Answer: Anything that is mailable as a "letter” or "letter package” can be sent via Foreign Air Mail.
What are the limitations as to weight and size? Answer: The weight limit is 4 pounds 6 ounces except to Canada and Newfoundland (including Labrador) to which it is 60 pounds. As to maximum dimensions, 36 inches is allowed for length, breadth
and thickness combined, with 24 inches the greatest length allowed. As to minimum dimensions the Department recommends that articles measure not less than 4 inches in length and 23/4 inches in width. When sent in the form of a roll the length (the maximum of which is 32 inches) plus twice the diameter is limited to 40 inches.
What kind of stamps can be used? Answer: Ordinary postage stamps can be used though special air mail stamps are recommended.
Can Foreign Air Mail be registered and what is the fee? Answer: Yes. The fee is 20ffi A registry return receipt if requested at the time of mailing can be had for 5^ additional and if requested after mailing for 10^ additional. (Return receipts come back via ordinary mail.)
Can Foreign Air Mail be sent Special Delivery and if so, what is the fee? Answer: For an extra fee of 20^ except Canada where the United States Domestic rates apply, Foreign Air Mail can be sent by special delivery to any of the countries with which International Special Delivery Service is in force.
Clipper Mail postage rates have recently been decreased drastically to most countries of Latin America—to some countries by as much as 50%, and this trend is anticipated to all countries throughout the world.
40