NEIGHBORS
Pan American World Airways presents with pleasure this Guidebook as an introduction to the postwar Air Age. It has been dedicated to the proposition that to live in friendship with our neighbors we must know our neighbors. Two ways by which our world community can reach that basic understanding, prerequisite to international order, are Trade and Travel. Along these parallel paths we can advance, to meet our neighbors face to face and learn to appreciate their problems and ambitions.
As our world moves ahead into the Air Age, the need for international comity based on a greater understanding as between "Neighbors” becomes increasingly evident because the world has become a close-knit "neighborhood.” Travel and Trade, those two builders of friendship, are now yours on a scale greater than ever before, thanks to Aviation.
Air transportation has done much to liberate Man from the isolation imposed by time and distance, has given him the means swiftly to go where he wishes, see what he desires and trade where he will.
The time is not far oif when the things we’ve been content to hear or read about will be ours to see, and become a part of; when a two or three week vacation in a once distant continent will be commonplace; when the ease and comfort of travel in new, modern Clippers will bring the world, and a better understanding of its peoples, within range of all.
With this in mind, and as a travel "preview,” Pan American World Airways has
created this unique Guidebook—so that you may "visit,” in imagination, our great world neighbors ... In pictures, and in words, we have portrayed the personality of these interesting countries—their history and cultural inheritance, their work and their play.
Each section of this book contains a colorful montage portrait of a portion of the world’s peoples. Here we can see our Neighbors at work and at play and something of their culture and heritage. On facing pages you will find an illustrated resume of the attractions of each of these lands that are in the nature of up-to-date travel guides.
Plan now to visit these fascinating lands via new, modern Clippers, and to enjoy the unrivalled facilities, the world-famous services of Pan American World Airways System.
For business men, who realize the vital role that Foreign Trade will play in their nation’s prosperity, the Flying Clippers provide time-saving transportation. As a result of war, new and unusual economic conditions must be studied for correct appraisal and planning . . . potential expanding markets await those with enterprise and vision. (See pp. 36-38.)
On the back cover of the book is an animated map portraying the Progress of Transportation through the ages, culminating in the Air Age now at hand.
If in this Guidebook dedicated to presenting "A World of Neighbors,” we have in any measure contributed to that basic international understanding so necessary for the Future, a fervent ambition will have been realized.
3