AFRICA
Camel caravan at rest on market day in Algeria
and water buffaloes plowing side by side, and dark-skinned, bare-legged peasants working in the fields make you imagine you were back in the days of the Pharaohs. Some of the world’s first astronomers and mathematicians lived in Egypt.
Cairo, a city of dreams, is a thronged metropolis, with four hundred mosques and minarets. Here El Azhar, "oldest university in the world,” was founded 520 years before Columbus discovered America, and became the seat of Koranic learning. Here, too, are crowded shops, enticing bazaars, red-fezzed officials, and street venders.
Th E SPHINX, ETERNAL ENIGMA • There are
modern sections in Cairo, too. You will want to see Shep-heard’s Hotel, world-renowned rendezvous. Tours of Cairo include the principal mosques, some of them truly magnificent, the unique tombs of the Mamelukes, the king’s palace, the Egyptian Museum and the nearby three great pyramids (royal tombs) of Gizeh and that eternal enigma of Egypt— the Sphinx. Men have never ceased to wonder how the ancient Egyptians, without machinery, built the mighty pyramids.
Ships passing through the nearby Suez Canal (surveyed by Napoleon’s engineers but not built until 71 years later) pass the scene of the crossing of the Red Sea by the Children of Israel and the drowning of Pharaoh’s army.
Out of the nearby deserts Moses led the Children of Israel, after their series of tribulations.
The delta and the river valley of the 4,000-mile-long Nile are the most densely populated areas in Africa.
On the calm waters of the Nile floated the royal barge of Anthony and Cleopatra. Near Alexandria, Nelson won the famous Battle of the Nile.
Alexandria, on the Nile delta, is the main port of Egypt. It was named for Alexander the Great, who founded it in 332 B.C. In World War II it was an Axis goal until, at nearby El Alamein, the great Allied offensive began that eventually swept the Axis out of Africa. Up the Nile is historic Khartoum, scene of General Gordon’s defense against the Fuzzy-wuzzies, later immortalized by Kipling.
The Union of South Africa (at the other end of the continent), a Dominion member of the British Commonwealth, has made the most progress in certain phases of the development of Africa. From this important region come great quantities of wool, wheat, brandies, fine wines, and beef. About two-thirds of the world’s supply of gem diamonds come from the Union, and industrial diamonds from mines there are extremely important in machine tools.
Greatest WILD-LIFE SANCTUARY . Discovery of diamonds at Kimberley in 1867 and of gold in the Transvaal were the beginning of the commercial development of the Union. The Union has been the world’s leading gold producer.
The world’s greatest wild-life sanctuary is the Kruger National Park, five million acres in northeastern Transvaal. Over a thousand miles of roads, visitors can drive to see the herds of antelope, giraffes, lions, elephants, hippos, leopards, zebras and crocodiles—all in their native habitat.
Johannesburg, the metropolis of South Africa, is a thriving city of more than 500,000 and comparable to Denver or Salt Lake City. Other great cities of the Union are Capetown, with its Table Mountain, Pretoria and Durban.
In Durban, visitors can ride through the streets in jin-rikishas pulled by bare-legged, colorfully-garbed Zulus.
Of that portion of the Union’s 10,000,000 population that is of European extraction, 40 per cent are British and 60 per cent are mainly of Dutch descent. The great trek of the Boers into the interior of the country (1,100 miles) was started in 1836.
Just as the most adventurous in the U.S.A. followed Horace Greeley’s advice, "Go West, young man,” so the most adventurous in South Africa followed the advice of that great empire-builder, Cecil Rhodes, "Go North.” The tide of settlers and gold-seekers flowed north into the little-known interior and on toward the mighty Victoria Falls.
The Belgian Congo, 918,000 square miles in the heart of Africa, played a vital role in World War II, supplying raw materials and an army of volunteer troops.
West Africa, which has two-thirds the area and one-third the population of the U.S.A., has a long and eventful history. Many troops from West Africa fought side by side with their allies against the Axis in World War II.
Visitors to West Africa make sure to see the richly-bedecked emirs (rulers), the "bee-hive” thatched village houses, masked devil dancers, the carved mud houses of Nigeria and the “talking” drums of the Gold Coast.
Two relatively important independent countries in Africa are Ethiopia and Liberia. Ethiopia boasts of a long history of independence. The first victim of Axis aggression, Ethiopia was first to be liberated. Liberia, founded in 1821 by freed slaves from America, is a republic on the west coast.
Shopping in the shadow of a Roman amphitheater North Africa
The baked mud palaces of Kano, Nigeria
Regal splendor of a West African local ruler North African belle balances a jug of fresh water