A portrait of The Mediterranean and the Near East, part of A World of Neighbors
THE sky-blue Mediterranean Sea, romantic setting for countless dramas of history, is one of the world’s most vital waterways. It links three continents: Europe, Africa and Asia; and over it ply vessels from almost every country that has a merchant marine, however small. Here are the "sunshine lands.”
Extending for almost 2,400 miles from Gibraltar in the west to Syria in the east, its waters wash the southern countries of Europe, the northern coast-lands of Africa, and the Near East areas of Asia. Through Egypt’s Suez Canal it finds its way into the Red Sea, eventually joining the Indian Ocean. Through the Dardanelles it meets the Black Sea, which gives life to the fleets of Rumania, Bulgaria and the U.S.S.R.
Since the first man launched his hand-hewn boat on its waters, the Mediterranean has been a “highway of history.” It has seen the crude wooden vessels of the Phoenicians who sailed as far westward as England to carry their spices and herbs from the East. The slave galleys of the Greeks and Romans used it to complete their conquests of the known world. Its commerce has given birth to many cities on its coasts; some of these are still prominent in world trade while others have long since become lost in antiquity. In every modern war it has been a strategic area where mighty fleets have fought, knowing that its control could mean victory.
Climate of the Mediterranean coast varies little from year to year. Summer days are warm, and the winters are mild, the Alps tempering the cold air from the north.
The western entrance to the Sea is guarded by Britain’s sentry, the fortress of Gibraltar, whose guns dominate traffic through the Strait. Just north of this entrance to the Sea are Portugal and Spain. It is to these two nations that the Western World owes its discovery, for it was their ships which sailed westward in search of a shorter route to India.
LAND OF ROMANCE • Portugal, following the precedent set by its early navigators, is still a seafaring country, and its harbors are busy with ships loading farm produce and unloading machinery, clothing and luxury items.
Spain is the land of romance—of dancing, soft guitars and heady wine. It is the home of the Dons, gay senoritas, bullfights and the scene of the opera "Carmen.” The beautiful Alhambra at Granada reminds one of the conquest of that nation by the Moors. Spain exports wines, canned fish, vegetables and some ores.
Separated from Spain by the southern coast of France is Italy, which has never abandoned her art and music and love of life and good fellowship. Few countries possess the historic beauty that is Italy’s. Its ancient cathedrals, its land-