gigggipsra
I ( t
A portrait of Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland, part of A World of Neighbors
ACROSS the Atlantic, high up on the European Continent, are the Northern Countries—Norway, Sweden, L Denmark and Finland. For many reasons, Iceland can be considered as part of this area. Although far from the United States in miles, they are close in creed, for they too have been leaders in the quest for freedom, the democratic way of life and the blessings of social progress. They are "America’s kind” of people, with American ideals, ethics, and the same zest for healthy and happy living.
America’s contact with the peoples of Scandinavia dates back 1,000 years to the time when Fief Ericsson and his Vikings braved the vastness of the Atlantic and beached their tiny ships on the shores of the New World, a full 500 years before Columbus made his historic discovery. They were strong-willed, strong-bodied men, intent upon establishing new colonies and markets for their native products. They found the country barren, of course, except for the Indians whose welcome was anything but friendly.
The descendants of Lief and his kind, who established settlements even in Northern France, Scotland and Ireland, were as capable as their ancestors, and their countries prospered. Occasionally through history, strife arose between them, but generally they have been reluctant to quarrel with their neighbors, and they have become known as the most
peaceful countries in the world. Even the physical devastation of World War II has been largely spared them.
Playground and health resort . The
Scandinavian countries comprise a huge playground and health resort for tourists from all over the world who wish to partake of Nature’s richest treasures. Their clear, cool climate is set against an old-world picture of incredible natural wealth and variety of scenery. A vast panorama of evergreen forests, gem-like lakes and rolling hills lies beyond the sandy beaches and many coastal fjords, extending for 12,000 miles in Norway alone. The multitude of inland waters teems with game fish.
Hiking, boating and camping can be indulged in to hearts’ content by those with a fondness for the great outdoors. Water-sport enthusiasts can choose between the refreshing lake waters or those of the sea. There are numerous golf links and tennis courts.
The snow-capped mountains of all of Scandinavia (with the exception of Denmark) are the destination of many ski and skating enthusiasts in quest of the more-vigorous winter sports. Whatever may be your concept of an ideal sportsman’s holiday, you will realize it here.
The gently rolling landscape of Denmark breathes of