CANADA • ALASKA NEWFOUNDLAND
from her title, "Granary of the Empire” and her more recent wartime role of "Larder of the United Nations.”
Before the war, Canada was the fifth trading nation of the world; the war has made her third.
Every year there is a steady trek of American sportsmen to Canada to fish her shimmering lakes and foaming streams, and stalk the game in her vast forests, beautiful mountains and extensive parks. The salmon, bass and trout are the prizes sought by the fishermen, while the hunters follow the moose, caribou, deer, elk, buffalo, bear and beaver.
Alaska, despite the beauties of its glistening glaciers and snow-capped mountains, is not a land of perpetual ice and snow as many imagine. The picture of Alaska as a barren, frozen country should have vanished years ago. Actually, as any sourdough will tell you, Alaska has a wide diversity of climate, and in certain areas its summer temperatures are nearly as warm as those of the United States.
In August, Fairbanks may be experiencing a heat wave while just a few miles away, high on a sloping ridge of one of Alaska’s tall mountains, herds of reindeer paw the first snow of the approaching Fall season. This is the time when the rich cultivated valleys yield their full harvest of vegetables and grain, and the coastal waters teem with salmon, cod and halibut.
In Winter the Aurora Borealis, parading its myriad-colored banners across the frosty northern night sky, heralds the heavy snow which paints the countryside a spotless white. Now it is that the hunter in his cozy log cabin oils his rifle and the grizzled trapper sets his traps on the trail of the animals whose pelts bring rich prices in world markets.
Tribal rites and weird dances . The
existence of Alaska, which is as large in area as Norway and Sweden combined, was first established by Vitus Bering, a Danish sailor in the service of Russia, in 1741. It was taken by Russia but little developed until 1867 when, after negotiations with U. S. Secretary of State William EL Seward, Alaska was sold to the United States. The purchase price was $7,200,000—approximately 2(# an acre. With her natural resources Alaska has since that time repaid at least 300 times that original purchase price.
The tourist in Alaska is offered the unusual opportunity of studying three entirely different cultures, existing almost side-by-side but separated by a gulf of many hundreds of years. The most modern industrial civilization operates side by side with the ancient, native customs. Here Indians hold ceremonial tribal rites and Eskimos have weirdly-beautiful impromptu dances after successful fishing expeditions.
The Dolly Varden trout of the inland streams interest the sportsman, while the coastal waters abound in salmon, halibut, mackerel and cod.
Nowhere in the world is there such abundance and mag-
Chief Shot-on-Both-Sides, * a notable figure at I Waterton Lakes! National Park, Canada!
Breath-taking Takakhaw Falls in Canadian Rockies
nificence of mountain, fjord and glacier scenery as in Alaska. The coastline, for thousands of miles, is a continuous panorama (especially when viewed from a Flying Clipper).
The vast interior of Alaska holds something to attract almost everyone: vacationist, business men seeking new opportunities, home-seeker, agriculturalist, and tourists seeking new delights off the beaten track.
The "ghost towns” are still there, too, reminiscent of the rough and romantic days of the gold rush, of Chilkoot Pass and of the tall tales of Jack London and Robert W. Service. So are the stately, carved totem poles and the remains of Russian forts. Alaska’s mountains and glaciers are the roof of the continent, and their scenic beauty is unsurpassed. Commanded by mighty Mt. McKinley, monarch among mountains, the highest peak in North America, they seem to be a gateway to the Far North.
AkVIATION AIDS ECONOMY • Alaska’s wealth lies
in her mineral resources of gold, copper, tin, platinum, nickel, mercury, iron, silver, lead, graphite, sulphur, tungsten, etc. In spite of some good auto highways, railroads and shipping systems, transportation until the advent of aviation was the great problem in this country’s economy.
Another sportsman’s paradise is Newfoundland, one of the largest islands in the world. Newfoundland was England’s first colony.
Here is a land to delight the most inveterate world traveler. Here you can experience the thrill of exploring wild, beautiful rivers, lakes and mountains ... or just loaf.
In St. John’s, oldest city in North America, you can watch the picturesque fishing fleets unload their catches from the Grand Banks, or wander through grand old forts, or visit Cabot Tower where young Marconi received the first successful transatlantic wireless message.
Forty-two thousand square miles of unspoiled forests, sheer cliffs and lovely bays, rivers and lakes make this island the mecca of sportsmen. In all these waters are millions of rainbow and brook trout, and fighting salmon invade all but the smallest streams. Off shore are giant tuna and broadbill swordfish to interest the salt-water fisherman.
Paradise for hunters . to the hunter, the
beautiful Newfoundland forests offer moose, caribou, black bear, grouse, ducks and geese.
Lush wheat crop of Canadian prairies