The youthful pioneers who stood on that rocky Key West airport 19 years ago to watch a Pan American Airways plane take off for Havana to start the first regular commercial U. S. international air service, could never have known how far their efforts were to advance air transportation.
Starting south from Miami in 1927, Pan American first embraced and crisscrossed the Caribbean, then started down both coasts of South America to encircle that great continent.
The first flight of a U. S.-flag commercial air carrier over water in international air service (Oct. 19, 1927) was followed in swift succession by:
Establishment of regular routes within the Territory of Alaska in 1932 and the linking of Alaska with the continental U. S. in 1940.
Establishment of regular service across the world’s greatest body of water, the Pacific, in 1935, followed by service to New Zealand in 1940.
Establishment of the first transatlantic route in 1939.
Establishment, just prior to America’s entry into the war, of a trans-South Atlantic line to Africa and a landplane service into the interior of the "Dark Continent’’ at the government’s request.
Setting up and operating special centers for instruction in the technique of long-range flying, as an aid to the war effort.
For businessmen, accustomed to the pace
of surface transportation for vital communications, each extension of Pan American services was more than welcome.
For the first time it became possible for businessmen to fly abroad, see conditions firsthand, make or renew important contacts, and yet lose a minimum of time in the process.
Pleasure-travelers, formerly limited in their choice of destination by the length of time required for traveling, now find that, via Clipper, it is possible to travel farther, see more and spend less time on the way.
Today, you can fly via Pan American World Airways to four continents.
On the swift, sure wings of the Flying Clippers have been borne many an important personage—diplomats to cement international agreements, businessmen to solidify international trade pacts, and (in wartime) military leaders of nations fighting the forces of tyranny.
Clipper Express has proved its great value in comparable instances. In the cargo holds of the Flying Clippers have been carried such vital shipments as medical and relief supplies to stricken communities, repair parts for needed machinery, and military items on some of which the veil of official secrecy has, even yet, not been lifted.
For the future, Pan American World Airways will continue to help make close neighbors good neighbors, through increased international understanding.
Another type of Clipper: giant, new double-decked Boeing-built; the world’s largest and fastest commercial plane.