A Bulgarian monastery courtyard
Refreshment for a Transylvanian
CENTRAL and SOUTHEASTERN
EUROPE
quaintness and charm all its own, yet is ultra-modern with more than its quota of spires, skyscrapers and neon signs. Its outlying villages are charming, with medieval castles.
In science, Czechoslovakia has quite a heritage. Among its achievements is that of Mendel who formulated the basic laws of heredity, and that of one of its early scientists who perfected the lightning rod long before Franklin. Names like "Good King Wenceslas,” Amos Comensky, John Huss and Thomas G. Masaryk are known all over the world as are Smetana and Dvorak, the composers.
Czechoslovakia is highly industrialized, containing approximately 75% of the entire industrial wealth of the old Empire of Austria-Hungary. Many of the industries are large-scale. The main industries are mining (the deepest in Europe is her silver mine, Pribram), steels, textiles and chemicals, heavy machinery, footwear, glass and porcelain. Pilzen is the seat not only of the Skoda Works, but also the home of world-famous Pilsener beer (called by the Czechs "Prazdroj”).
Slovakia, with its romantic capital, Bratislava, is a tourists’ paradise. The Tatra resorts are among the most beautiful spots of this romantic corner of Central Europe, with sports, good food, luxurious hotels and friendly hosts.
Austria’s capital—romantic, happy, ageless Vienna—on the beautiful Blue Danube is being rebuilt along former lines. Thrones may totter, governments may rise and fall, but Vienna’s romantic waltzes and gay cafes and night clubs go on forever. Of her historic edifices, many escaped with slight damage, including Schonbrunn Palace, which recalls the luxury of the Hapsburg regime, and Stefferl (as her beautiful cathedral is called). Besides Austria’s monumental symbols of past culture, however, the natural beauty of the pastoral country still delights tourists, with green forests, mirror-like lakes and snow-capped mountains.
Thousands used to flock to the Salzburg Music Festival in the shadow of the imposing Alps.
The Hungarian plain, called the "granary of Central Europe,” is one of the most colorful vistas of the European continent. Around its gypsy camps even today there linger the traditions of ancient nomadic tribes. The cowboys of the American Wild West have a counterpart in the Hungarian cowboys (Csikos) who are expert horsemen, and round-up tens of thousands of cattle which were factors in feeding pre-war Europe. Hungary has been called The Land of Milk and Honey.
Queen of the blue Danube . Hungary is
one of the countries blessed by the waters of the Tisza and majestic Danube, on whose banks stands her principal city, Budapest, the proud Queen of the Blue Danube, queer mixture of the old and the new (Buda on one side of the
Palace of the Hapsburgs, Vienna
river, Pest on the other). Visitors never failed to exclaim at the sight of Parliament House, like a marble mirage rising fairy-like from the Danube. Budapest is a modern industrial city yet steeped in all the richness of the past. Picturesque Hungary has long been, and still is, a favorite among the visitors from the outside world, who admire her beauty and sip the famous, rare Tokay wine.
To the Balkan countries of Rumania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia, the Danube is more than a stream of romance and history. It is a lifeline connecting them with the outside world. It is a great, international water highway, driving thousands of mills, carrying hundreds of barges and tugs—fully one-quarter of Balkan trade floats on its waters.
Bulgaria’s scenic values have been little exploited. Sofia, Bulgaria’s capital and chief industrial center, has been practically rebuilt into a modern city since 1878 and has an export trade in foodstuffs and fragrant attar of roses.
Rumania is a country of infinite charm and infinite riches. Like Hungary, it has its gypsies, who delight in music and unique dances. Richly-embroidered clothing and rugs, pottery and handicraft reveal the inherent skill of the people.
Soil is fertile (75% of the people are engaged in farming and stock-raising). Rumania has great rivers, coal, salt, petroleum, gold, iron. The capital, Bucharest, "Paris of the Balkans,” has skyscrapers, villas and gay night life.
Yugoslavia is becoming increasingly of interest, partly because of its part in the war against the Axis. The costumes and customs of its peasantry, the Moslem-types of Bosnia, the crimson and gold-clad Montenegrins are among the most worthwhile sights in all the continent. Sarajevo, where the spark that set the world aflame in 1914 was struck, is an interesting tourist stop.
Atmosphere of the orient . Agricuiture-
stock-raising and crop cultivation—is the principal occupation in Yugoslavia. Belgrade, the capital, has lost some of its Oriental atmosphere with the erection of modern banks, schools, business houses and hotels.
Albania, although in size smallest of the Balkans, has high mountains and equally attractive blue lakes. Tirana, the capital, is a mixture of modern streets and buildings and queer Turkish alleys.
. ■ ", "
Chopin's birthplace, near Warsaw
Budapest and the Blue Danube