MS

A portrait of France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg, part of A World of Neighbors
third century B.C. was the source of coins that reached Paris and the Austrian Tyrol in the course of trade. Ancient Greeks and Phoenicians entered the heart of Europe via the nearby Rhone Valley. That way came the Roman legions; still later, religion, literature, arts and sciences fled there from the barbarian conquest of Rome. For almost a century Avignon was the fortress of the Christian Church, home of the Popes and starting point for many of the Crusaders. Near Marseilles is the Chateau d’lf, island fortress that held the fabulous Count of Monte Cristo.
II S an old saying that it you take a seat at a Paris sidewalk cafe and wait long enough, sooner or later you will see passing Everyone who is Anyone in the world. The procession already is 1,500 years old. Certainly for a good many years people have been flocking to France. "Good living,” culture, education and inspiration are undeniable attractions.
France is known as a nation of arts, letters, science, gaiety and festivals. Always it has been a meeting place of people, politically and socially. Students of music, painting, styling and architecture flock there. The University of Paris (known everywhere as the Sorbonne) is almost 800 years old, as are the Universities of Montpellier and Toulouse.
Paris, capital city, spared destruction in the German blitz of 1940, is the third-largest city of the Old World, one of the world's oldest and most beautiful cities. It has magnificent tree-lined avenues (the Champs Elysees, for example), fine public buildings, the Opera with its traditional red silk, gilded carving and plush, and large art galleries like the Louvre, housing the Mona Lisa and Venus de Milo. Here too is the Place de la Concorde with fountains and the obelisk Napoleon brought back from his conquest of Egypt, and the Emperor’s tomb in the Invalides. Paris night-life, flower girls, Seine fishermen, open-air bookstalls are unique. Old Marseilles, biggest port of France, as early as the
URES OF RIVIERA
The warm sunshine and balmy breezes of the Riviera have made that coastline synonymous for years with leisurely living and good times. Here pleasure-seekers will again enjoy the life of Monte Carlo with its famous casino, Cannes and Nice.
Although France has been invaded five times in the last five centuries, conquerors have never succeeded in maintaining their rule, and the power to restore independence (typified by the stirring Marseillaise) has always come from within the people. "Warrior of France” is no idle term. For centuries France has had to fight for her wants.
The French countryside is marked by rolling hills, leisurely canals bordered by stately poplars, hazy river valleys, change-