GREAT BRITAIN
and
IRELAND
Pageantry and history still play a large part in British life. London, for instance, having survived in 300 years the Plague, the Great Fire, and German bombings, still finds time to watch the Royal Procession to open Parliament, the Horse Guards "trooping the colors,” the "Beef-eaters” (yeomen of the Guard at London Tower) and even the bank messengers in green livery and black top hats.
Castles AND COTTAGES • Down many a narrow
London lane, on many a wide moor, stand humble thatched cottages and once-impregnable moated castles that have echoed the steps of kings and conquerors—and of humbler citizenry.
Visitors to Britain delight in seeing the Ann Hathaway cottage, Shakespeare’s birthplace, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, Oxford and Cambridge.
Dickens’ Old Curiosity Shop was a regular stop for sightseers, as were London Bridge, Piccadilly Circus, Trafalgar Square, Kew (botanical) Gardens, St. Paul’s Cathedral, St. James’s Palace, the National Gallery, the British Museum, and changing the guard at Buckingham Palace.
The villages are one place to see how Britain lives. Most of them are clustered around the little churches that deeply influence both the spiritual and social life of the community. In a different sense, the local “pubs” are the gathering places of the districts (just as the coffee houses of London were in Samuel Johnson’s day), where John Bull can meet his neighbor after a day’s work for a game of darts, a political discussion, or local gossip, over a glass of beer (ale to Americans).
Although 40% of the people of the British Isles live in the 47 cities of 100,000 or more population, one trademark of Britain is the little garden plot behind almost every home.
For a thousand years invasions, beginning with Julius Caesar, added new blood and unfamiliar customs. But for the next thousand years Britishers had time to assimilate their differences and work out ways to govern themselves.
Government IS UNIQUE • Britain’s government is unique. There are no written Constitutions. There is a King who reigns, consults, opines, holds real (if seldom exercised) powers, but who does not govern. Parliament began doing that, making laws and levying taxes, as early as the 13th Century, when King John signed Magna Charta.
Yet it is a government that has set a pace for a good portion of the world. Passage in 1679 of the Law of Habeas Corpus and of the Bill of Rights ten years later were landmarks in the history of Justice.
Scotland’s scenery of misty mountains, evergreens, stone cottages, and lakes is famous; fishermen have caught many
Old York Cathedra I
a fine salmon in her rivers; golfers travel thousands of miles to play the course at the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, the international shrine of golf.
Wales, in a way a "foreign” corner of Britain, is peopled by descendants of the Celts and Iberians, some of the oldest Britons. Welshmen are proud of their centuries-old language, historical traditions and legendary customs; one of their strongest national characteristics is a love of good music and fine singing. South Wales is rich in coal, with mining villages straggling up the narrow valleys.
IRELAND
MOST of the island of Ireland is included in the 27,000 square miles of Eire (formerly the Irish Free State), with some 3,000,000 citizens.
While Northern Ireland chose to remain associated with the United Kingdom and maintains a separate parliament, its inhabitants regard themselves as Irishmen as surely as those who reside in Eire.
A strange and famous landmark is the Giant’s Causeway, celebrated in legends, made up of 40,000 columns of basalt rock rising from a bay at the northern tip of Ireland.
Irishmen like to recount their past, describe their scenery, whisper about the fairyfolk, and talk with pride of Ireland’s great men. Many soldiers from the U.S.A. have heeded the song "Come back to Erin” to visit the homes of their ancestors on the "auld sod,” to see the Irish lakes, green mountains, and whitewashed, thatched-roof farm cottages.
In Eire’s capital, Dublin, is Christ Church Cathedral, founded by the Danish invaders when they turned Christian, and rebuilt by the Normans, where visitors can see the tomb of Richard Strongbow. Memories of Dean Swift, the satirist, are associated with St. Patrick’s.
Near Cork is Blarney Castle with its famous stone. Its legend may be one reason it attracts so many tourists: "There is a stone there, ivhoever kisses,
Oh! he never misses to grow eloquent,
’Tis he may clamber to a lady’s chamber,
Or become a member of Parliament.’’

M
i(Sign) A London tavern for four hundred years a meeting place
.Hi

Ruins of Rass Castle, Killarney
T
Legendary Harlech Castle, in the Welsh mountains
Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, Stratford-on-Avon