SCANDINAVIA
SWEDEN • NORWAY FINLAND • DENMARK
ICELAND
Copenhagen Town Hall from the Tivoli Gardens
peace and prosperity, and the people are as friendly as the scenery, for they have been trained in one of the world’s most efficient public school systems and in the famous adult Danish Folk Schools.
UnCROWDED, SANDY BEACHES . Denmark consists of the Jutland peninsula and 500 islands; on one of these, Zealand, lies Copenhagen, whose beautiful harbor is watched over by the statue of the lovely Little Mermaid. For her area, Denmark has a tremendous coastline, bordered by white sand beaches, and on these beaches millions of visitors annually bathe in the surf.
On a peninsula near Elsinore stands Kronborg Castle, setting for Shakespeare’s Hamlet.
It was a Danish king, Canute the Great, who conquered much of England about 1016. It was he who ordered the tide to stay back.
Finland boasts a landscape of bewitching beauty and ever-changing mood, sparkling days and dreamy nights. This land, with its foaming rapids, golden sands and streams, has 60,000 lakes and 80,000 islands. Helsinki, the capital, is the largest city in Finland. It has many fine public buildings in classical and modern style, wide streets and beautiful parks and gardens.
Four-fifths of Norway lies at an elevation of more than 500 feet; the great fjords are found where deep bays intersect Norway’s towering mountains. Norway, in common with the other Scandinavian countries, early learned the value of cooperation (necessary that all might live more fully) and there developed a highly-organized system of cooperative societies, two-thirds of whose membership in Norway for example is in rural areas. Until 1905, Norway and Sweden formed a union.
Since 1870 the Norwegian merchant marine has given that country a leading position as a maritime power. Norwegian merchant ships played a vital role in the war at sea during World War II. Norway’s fisheries are the largest in Europe.
Oslo, the capital of Norway, founded in 1048, has the reputation of being one of the cleanest and healthiest of European cities. With its large, modern department stores, Parliament building and royal castle, Oslo never fails to attract tourists. Its National Theatre has huge statues of Ibsen and Bjornson, dramatists.
Castles and palaces everywhere .
Stockholm, the capital of Sweden is proclaimed the most
quaintly medieval capital in existence. Its Drottningholm Theatre has a museum dating from the 18th Century, and is unique in all the world. Reminders of the Vikings, too, exist for the inspection of the curious traveler. The annual regatta of the Royal Swedish Yacht Club is a world sporting event.
Sweden is the home of the Nobel Foundation prizes, established by Alfred Nobel.
In Iceland, traces can be found of the early settlers who drifted northward from Ireland, to be replaced later by the Vikings. This island, warmed by the Gulf Stream despite its high latitude, possesses a strange and grim beauty. High mountains guard the treeless terrain of moors and steaming geysers. Its southern streams abound in salmon and trout.
Rainbow hues of northern lights .
During the hottest summer, the air is pleasantly cool, and the sun, seemingly reluctant to leave such comfortable beauty, never sets from the second week in May ’til the end of July. In winter, it disappears from November 18 ’til January 23, leaving the sky radiant with the rainbow hues of the flickering Northern Lights.
Resources of soil and sea • to Denmark,
nature has given few resources except the soil and the sea; almost all her raw materials must be imported. But on her soil she has capitalized to the fullest extent until 75% of her land has been devoted to farming. Norway and Sweden, too, boast of their fishing industries which are among the world’s finest. Many are the stirring tales of, for example, the Lofotin Islands fishermen. Steel is a product of which Sweden can be proud; before the war it was in demand by most of the countries in Europe.
Next in importance in the Scandinavian countries industries are forestry, mining and shipping. Extensive woodlands furnish an abundance of spruce, pine, juniper, birch, willow and aspen for use in construction, paper manufacture and distillation of pitch and turpentine. Iron mines are being developed rapidly.
Scandinavia is not only a haven which tourists can leisurely visit and there spend a happy holiday; it is a potential market where the world can exchange its multitude of new materials and methods for Scandinavia’s products.
Before the war, Scandinavia imported millions of dollars’ worth of raw materials, textiles, clothes, cosmetics, gasoline, etc., from the United States, and will do likewise in the postwar age.
Terrace
Idyllic setting of Hardanger Fjord, Norway
Copenhagen harbor
Kalmar Castle for centuries a Swedish stronghold