tern of tobacco and sugar-cane fields looks like a giant checker board when viewed from the air. Cuba’s capital, Havana, is noted for its carefree nightlife. Almost in the shadow of rugged Morro Castle the battleship Maine anchored on that fateful day in 1898. Via Flying Clipper this "foreign” land is only about 90 minutes from the U. S. A.
Visitors to Puerto Rico can see this most-important Latin American dependency of the United States, with fertile soil intensively cultivated for the raising of export crops of sugar, fruits, coffee and tobacco—the last grown under great expanses of white cheesecloth that from a distance look like giant tablecloths spread out under the bright tropical sun.
Jamaica in the 1780’s was one of the richest of Great Britain’s colonial possessions. Today it offers travelers a variety of sights and amusements, including Kingston where that bold buccaneer, Sir Henry Morgan, once maintained undisputed reign over the entire island.
To the eastward are the Windward and Leeward Islands. These include the French islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique. On the latter, the Empress Josephine, first wife of Napoleon Bonaparte, was born. Here, in 1902, occurred one of the greatest natural disasters in history, when Mont Pelee, a towering but seemingly-harmless volcano, erupted.
Alexander Hamilton, destined to be a firebrand in the American Revolution against Britain, was bom a British subject on the island of Nevis, in the West Indies, in 1757.
Trinidad, lying only 25 miles off the South American mainland, is becoming increasingly important as a source of oil. Almost every visitor to the island makes certain to see the seemingly-inexhaustible asphalt lake, the best-known source of the sticky, black surfacing material. Here is the place to hear the strange and fascinating melodies of the Calypso singers, the “voice of Trinidad,” with their unique rhythms.
Beautiful and inexpensive potteries, carvings, etc., can be purchased in the many gay and colorful markets
Ghosts of Spanish raiders • t0 the Bahamas, visitors can hop from Miami via Flying Clippers in a matter of minutes, there to enjoy incomparable bathing beaches or to wander through 18th Century forts where one can almost imagine the ghosts of swashbuckling Spanish raiders haunting dusky dungeons.
Resorts —Varadero Beach (Cuba), Paradise Beach (Bahamas) and Montego Bay (Jamaica) are widely-famed shore resorts. Shaw Park, Jamaica, is a well-known attraction. Luquillo National Park, Treasure Island and Coamo Springs attract visitors to Puerto Rico. Trinidad has several good beaches on the Atlantic, accessible from Port of Spain. Caneel Bay at St. Thomas, V. I.
Sightseeing —Isle of Pines (off the coast of Cuba) was the "Treasure Island” of Robert Louis Stevenson. Fields of fine tobacco are worth visiting in Cuba. Nassau has underwater gardens and Black Beard’s Tower. The remains of Columbus lie in the cathedral of Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic. Trinidad has the world-famous pitch lake.
Events- Cattle roundups in Jamaica, sailing regattas in the Bahamas, sugar harvesting in Cuba are real attractions. The most important religious and national holidays are widely celebrated throughout the West Indies. Calypso singing is a Trinidad attraction from January until Lent.
Pan American World Airways System has been serving Latin America since 1927, when it established the first U. S. flag international airline operation. Today there is scarcely a city in all of Mexico, Central and South America or the West Indies that is not served by the fast and convenient service of Pan American or its associated carriers. Giant new Flying Clippers will make the most-distant cities in Latin America only a day’s travel time away from the U. S. A.
BERMUDA
Bermuda, only a few hours from New York via Flying Clippers, is a Gulf Stream paradise cut off from the hustle and bustle of larger lands. In this cool, idyllic Arcady, Bermudians have learned to embrace the leisurely delights of civilization, their pure air touched only by the scent of myriad semi-tropic flowers, the wafted tang of sea breezes and the delicious fragrance of cedar. The romance of perpetual June lingers here 365 days a year; Bermuda has been called "a fairy garland dropped in a rainbow sea.”
You can cycle over lovely coral roads to pure white sand beaches, or take a leisurely horse and buggy ride past vine-covered stone fences on your way to an afternoon of unexcelled sailing. Or, you may wish to visit a session of the legislature, to see the officials in their gowns and wigs.
Resorts — All Bermuda is one vacationland. No place you may stay, whether one of the big hotels or a more modest guest house, is more than a mile from the ocean. Sports include: fishing, sailing, horseback or bicycle riding, swimming, golf and tennis.
Sightseeing—The pink coral houses, cedar-lined roads and oleander-covered fences are welcome sights to those tired of the city life. The Crystal and Leamington Caves, Devil’s Hole, the Aquarium, old churches, Parliament, Gibbs Hill lighthouse, little shops—Bermuda has them all.
Events—The pre-Easter season in Bermuda is a riot of flowers, with field after field of lilies in bloom. The international yacht race has become synonymous with Spring in these islands. Tennis and fishing tournaments are held at regular intervals.
It’s easy to dance the rumba or samba to the marvelous music of Latin American night-club orchestras.