THE largest and deepest ocean in the world is the mighty Pacific, stretching for 12,000 miles across its greatest span and covering nearly one-half the surface area of the earth.
The vast reaches of the Pacific are flecked with small islands of volcanic and coral origin, so numerous that it has been impossible to catalogue all of them; over 7,000 have been listed in the Philippine group alone. There are more than 2,500 main groups, but of these only a few were known to anyone but a geographer a few years ago.
Oriental and tropical beauties • it has
taken World War II to reveal the Pacific in all its breathtaking and majestic splendor; for the past several years, little-known names—Wake, Guam, the Marianas, Kuriles, Marshalls, Okinawa, Iwo Jima—have entered the headlines. The oriental and tropical beauties of this vast area present a newly-discovered Wonderland for the tourist.
The Pacific has been the scene of some of the most-dramatic episodes in history. Magellan set out bravely in quest of a short route to the East Indies in 1519, and his wandering voyage led him across uncharted seas, around South America and across to Guam and the Philippines; from there his lieutenant, Del Cano, proceeded to the Moluccas and
28
around the Cape of Good Hope, completing the first trip around the world and proving that the world is round. Then that great sea rover, Sir Francis Drake, added this ocean to his conquests.
In the eighteenth century, Pacific exploration began in earnest. The English under James Cook, and the Americans, Spanish, French, Dutch, Portuguese and Russians covered the sea with their ships, and the traders and missionaries entered the scene. At the present time, the United States, Great Britain, The Netherlands and France have the largest interests in the area.
The island continent of the Commonwealth of Australia is the largest in the Pacific—a land mass almost as large as the United States, and a self-governing Dominion. In many ways it is similar to the United States; its cities, people, habits and customs remind Americans of their own country. Some of the principal differences, always fascinating to a visitor, are the aborigines and the strange animals.
The Australian natives, of whom only about 50,000 remain, remind one of the American Indian. Queer animals also are found on the continent. Of these one is the kangaroo, whose various species range in size from that of a man to that of a tiny kitten. The "teddy,” or woolly, tailless koala is another.
Australia is mainly an agricultural country: wheat, sugar