A portrait of England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and Eire, part of A World of Neighbors
FOR so small an area (121,000 square miles), the importance and influence of the British Isles are remarkable. Here is the birthplace of the British empire and the heart of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
From London, most extensive city in the world (but without a skyscraper), the affairs of half a hundred colonies, protectorates, and independent and self-governing dominions are coordinated and administered.
The present ruling sovereign, "by the Grace of God, King of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Defender of the Faith, Emperor of India,” is the latest in a line of kings that reaches back 1100 years to the Danes and Saxons.
Romans, Angles, Saxons, Jutes, Danes and Normans invaded Britain in past ages. The political and social innovations they brought with them can be traced down to today. But twice in modern times the English Channel and the white cliffs of Dover have foiled would-be invaders.
In their turn, English explorers and adventurers, sailing from ports near these same ramparts, planted the flag of England on many a distant shore and enlarged the flow of English trade. London’s commercial and political power, started in the reign of Richard the Lion Heart, grew accordingly; today miles of docks along the Thames hum to the tune of commerce with all parts of the world. For Britain is a trading nation, the world’s "best customer.”
London a cross-section . in a sense, London
is a cross-section of everything British. For decades, Fleet Street and Bond Street have set styles for the world, the first in journalism, the second in men’s fashions. In hushed Westminster Abbey are the tombs of the kings and other great men of England. Here every British sovereign since William the Conquerer (with one exception) has been crowned. The thousand-year-old Tower has held many a famous prisoner. A fourth of the people of the British Isles live and work in Greater London.
At London, Southampton, Liverpool and Glasgow, ships (many built on the Clyde or in Belfast) hourly weigh anchor with the products of Britain’s chief industries—coal mining, iron and steel manufactures, machinery, and textiles—to return with raw materials and food. Before the war, Britain used to import two-thirds of her food requirements. "Plum pudding” may be totally British, but chances are the rare roast beef came from the Argentine pampas. To feed a population of 47,000,000, Britishers have supplemented food imports by intensive cultivation of their own fields.
The biggest manufacturing towns are in the Midlands and the North—Birmingham with its iron and steel, Manchester with its cotton looms, Liverpool, Middlesbrough, and Leeds with its wool. Though scarred by the Blitz, many of these communities are working on new projects to rise on the dust and ashes of the war.