Chilean huasos and Argentine gauchos know how to barbecue meat to taste-tingling perfection.
nestled in the shadow of the Andes, or to Medellin, humming industrial center of this Crossroads of the Western World. Lovely orchids to thrill the heart of any lady are figuratively "a dime a dozen” in colorful Colombian flower markets.
Continuing down the West Coast of South America via Pan America-Grace Airways (an associate of Pan American World Airways) you may stop at Quito, oldest capital city in the New World, almost directly on the Equator, where days and nights are always the same length and where you can set your watch by the sunrise, always at 6 A.M. The coastal port of Guayaquil is the destination of hundreds of river rafts of lightweight balsa wood, on which farmers float their produce to market.
In Ecuador there is the strange sight and aroma of cocoa beans spread out to dry on the sun-drenched streets and the making of "Panama” hats in the Ecuadorian uplands.
Peru, next, has 21,000 towering peaks of the Andes. The dignity of the ages of vanished empires forms a backdrop for the most modern of city thoroughfares and buildings. Chile (as long as the United States is wide) is the home of the gay and legendary huasos (cowboys), some of the finest wines ever made, and the capital city of Santiago, a bit of Old Madrid transplanted to the Western World. At the unexcelled sea resort of Vina del Mar is the beautiful casino, racetrack and elegant hotels.
One of the greatest travel thrills ever experienced is to fly from Chile to Argentina across the top of the Andes, with snow-covered peaks below you and the endless pampas of Argentina stretching out before you. This is one of the highest aerial routes in the world. Midway in the crossing is the statue of Christ of the Andes, symbol of friendship between two nations.
As you soar over the vast pampas you may notice below you herds of thousands of cattle, fattening on the rich green grasses, tended by the gauchos, those carefree Argentine cowboys.
Buenos Aires, great metropolis on the Rio de la Plata, storied "River of Silver,” is the port through which passes much of the great trade with the United States and the Brit-
Al fresco dining (as at Brazil’s Quitandlnha Hotel, below) is a sample of Latin America’s leisurely living.
ish Isles. It is a city of wide boulevards, more than 100 great parks, stately plazas, and magnificent buildings. Here are night clubs and other places of entertainment unusual enough to thrill the truest Parisian. Followers of the Sport of Kings flock to the Hipodromo, one of the finest tracks in the world, to see the horse races.
In South America, particularly, many things remain from the days when Spaniards and Portuguese first settled there— beautiful cathedrals housing art masterpieces, the "colonial” cities of Brazil’s lengthy coast, and ornamental doorways and courtyards, for example.
The possibilities for discovering new thrills in South America are almost endless. On Lake Titicaca, highest navigable lake in the world, tourists can ride in native Indian reed boats like those the first dwellers of the area used centuries ago for fishing. Nearby is La Paz, capital of Bolivia, a "city in the clouds,” highest big city in the world.
Via Pan American World Airways System routes travelers can land almost within sight of mighty Iguassu Falls, on the Brazil-Paraguay-Argentina border, once remote and inaccessible in their jungle fastness.
Fertile Paraguay, although land-locked, has in its capital city of Asuncion a major port, 1,000 miles from the sea. Busy and progressive Uruguay is the smallest but most-densely populated independent nation in South America.
Completing the aerial circuit of -South America, Flying Clipper travelers can experience all the delights of Brazil, larger than the continental United States, dream to the scent of bougainvilleas in Rio and melt into the carefree abandon of carnival-time. At Santos, in the aroma of the world’s coffee capital, they can see the famous pink-marble museum and unique snake farm.
Resorts — Petropolis (summer capital), Therezopolis, and Pocos de Caldas—in Brazil; Nahuel—Huapi National Park, Cordoba Hills and Mar del Plata—in Argentina; the alpine lakes on the Chilean-Andean border; Los Teques, Maracay and the seaside resort of Macuto—Venezuela; Atlantida, Pocitos and Punta del Este—seaside resorts in Uruguay; Cali in Western Colombia; Quito, 9,200 feet high, capital of Ecuador; Arequipa, Peru, nestling at the foot of three mighty Andean peaks; Vina del Mar in Chile.
Sightseeing—Kaieteur Falls, British Guiana, five times the height of Niagara; Iguassu Falls, on the Argentine-Brazil border; Sugar Loaf and the Statue of Christ in Rio de Janeiro; steamer excursions up Argentina’s Tigre Delta; derby-hatted Indian women in Bolivia; the copper and nitrate works in northern Chile; the walled city of Cartagena, Colombia; Panama-hat making in Ecuador; the Incaland of Cuzco, Peru, and palaces in Lima, Peru, dating from the days of Pizarro.
Events- Carnival time, immediately preceding Lent, and the Christmas season are occasions for festivals throughout much of South America. Horse racing seasons in both Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires attract many visitors, and stock shows in the latter are annual events. Bullfighting can be seen in Venezuela, Mexico, Colombia and Peru. Rio’s Carnival is as well known as New Orleans’ Mardi Gras.
THE WEST INDIES
From the air, the islands of the West Indies look like spots of green velvet on which the deep blue Caribbean breaks in waves of white foam. Here are wide beaches, including delightful Varadero and famous Montego Bay, that draw sun-worshippers from near and far. In these holiday isles one can relax and forget the worries of a busy world.
In Haiti, where they tell of muffled jungle drums throbbing in weird voodoo rituals, one can climb the jungle heights to gaze in awe at the crumbling ruins of Emperor Christophe’s once-impregnable mountain fortress. Cuba’s rhythmic pat-