ONE-SIXTH of the earth’s land surface (more than 8,222,000 sq. mi.) is included in the U.S.S.R. This vast state (largest in the world) has approximately 190 million people, speaking 160 dialects, in climatic zones ranging from frigid to semi-tropical. "From the south up to the Arctic Ocean, and from Moscow to the border lands” runs the refrain of the Soviet "Song of Our Country.” There are 16 Union republics in the Soviet Union.
This is the land of prophetic Tolstoy, author of "War and Peace” and of Dostoievsky who wrote "Crime and Punishment,” Tchaikowsky and Mousorgsky.
Proud OF ACHIEVEMENTS • The people of the U.S.S.R. are proud of their industrial progress under state ownership, of their books published in 120 languages, 223,000 collective farms, the vast spread of education, the new culture that has been developed in the many nationalities, each with its own language, literature, art and theatre, and most of all of the great social experiments that have transformed their land since 1917.
In the Ural Mountains, the natural boundary between Europe and Asia, mineral deposits lying close to the surface have been uncovered by the action of the elements through the centuries. An entirely new industrial empire has
grown up "beyond the Urals,” that proved an invaluable arsenal when Germany invaded the U.S.S.R. in 1941.
Before World War II, a majority of the people of the U.S.S.R. were engaged in agriculture. The U.S.S.R. is first in the world in timber output. Forests, it is estimated, cover 2,000,000,000 acres.
Moscow, the capital, is a veritable storehouse of Russian archaeology, rich in traditions and filled with ancient monuments. Its subway system is a proud achievement of its citizens.
The Kremlin, now the seat of the Supreme Council of the U.S.S.R., was Moscow’s ancient citadel. It has huge brick walls, pierced by five gates. Outside the walls are the great Red Square (scene of parades and pageants) and Lenin’s imposing red-marble tomb. Inside are churches, government offices and the palace where the czar resided on his rare visits.
Visitors can see in the Kremlin many works of art and historical relics, including the 180-ton "Tsar Kolokol” bell.
The tombs of all the czars since Peter the Great are sheltered in the Cathedral of the Archangel Michael.
They will still point out the palace where Napoleon stayed in 1812 when he invaded the city, at which time the city was burned. In 1941 the Axis was defeated in its attempts to repeat Napoleon’s conquest.