RECENT OUTSTANDING STATEMENTS REGARDING THE IMPORTANCE OF FOREIGN TRADE
ERIC A. JOHNSTON,
President, Chamber of Commerce of the United States
"The foreign trade statistics of former years reflect a definite connection between the volume of exports and imports and our own prosperity or depression. Thus, we find that our prosperity of the twenties was paralleled by a high volume of foreign trade, both export and import. Similarly, our depression of the thirties was accompanied by a shrinkage of foreign trade to a volume much less than half that of the twenties. Our rising tide of prosperity before the present war went hand in hand with a substantial increase in foreign trade.
"Domestic production, employment and the volume of international trade all are parts of a common pattern. The portion of our production which is shipped abroad is only a relatively small part of the total. But it is a highly important part and in the case of many industries represents the difference between full employment and slack business.
"Potential markets for our products are everywhere in sight. If we are to develop them, our policies must be such as to enable the people of other countries to pay for our goods. Liberal credits will be good business for us, although after the experience with defaults in the thirties we need to be sure that our funds are used for productive purposes. We also must have tariff policies which will facilitate a large volume of imports, in order that other countries may obtain dollars with which to pay for our exports and to maintain interest payments on the money which they borrow from us.”
HON. HENRY A. WALLACE,
U. S. Department of Commerce
"The Department of Commerce is convinced that an expanding foreign trade can, and will, make a major contribution to the attainment of our most important economic objectives: sustained production, full employment, and a rising level of living—all within the framework of a free enterprise economy and our democratic traditions.
"United States exports may exceed 10 billion dollars in a single year on the basis of 1942 prices. But, in our enthusiasm at the prospect of this huge postwar demand for the products of
American fields and factories, we must not lose sight of the urgent necessity of our customers to finance these purchases.
"Our imports will have to be expanded, perhaps to 6 billion dollars, and the difference between this figure and 10 billion dollars in exports will have to be met, possibly by 3 billion dollars in foreign investments, and 1 billion in net transfer of services, including substantial expenditures by American tourists.
"If foreign trade transactions are to approximate these figures, we will need a continuation of the kind of American teamwork that has done so much to bring about the defeat of the Axis. There must be spontaneous and intelligent cooperation between industry, agriculture, labor and Government.”
HAROLD J. T. HORAN,
Time Magazine
"South America will be a great postwar market. Those twenty countries are plentifully supplied with cash. This is an unusual experience for them. Heretofore, they have been rather on the debit side of the International ledger but today, it is different.
"Eleven of the principal South American countries, by the end of 1942, held $1,350,000,000 in gold and foreign exchange outside their own countries. In December, 1940, they held only $775,-000,000. And by December of the year the war ends, it is estimated they will have $2,000,000,000.”
JAMES H. McGRAW, JR,
President, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company
"The most immediate contribution which the United States can make to world reconstruction is to make itself prosperous.
"Prosperity here means a large demand by our Industries for imports. The more we import, the easier will it be for foreign countries to meet their large and urgent needs for goods. In 1939, with a gross national product of $100 billion, our imports were $3 billion. After the war, with 55 million people employed and a gross national product of $155 billion, our imports would be about $7 billion or $8 billion.”
37