r>T EUROPE, a continent is busy building a new community after war.
In years to come the names of the great battles fought there in World War II will rank with Waterloo and the Marne in fame. But as the memory of war fades, the true beauty of these "old countries” again appears.
The peoples of Central Europe have a heritage almost as old as civilization itself. The Teutonic tribes which first overran the country from the north and established their city-states were a hardy race and supplied the background for the European nations of today. Throughout history, the peoples of Central and Southeastern Europe have proved their talents in the arts and sciences, producing some of our greatest musicians, artists, statesmen and scientists.
While the present-day traveler in Germany sees grim evidences of war, there still exists for him the symbols of the old world together with the framework of the new. In Berlin the Kaiser Frederick Museum housed the best of the German, Italian and Dutch masters.
From the precise and militaristic atmosphere of German Prussia, one can turn to the real beauty spots of Germany —Heidelberg, with its old university commemorated in the song, "Old Heidelberg”; Dresden, home of Dresden china; fashionable Baden-Baden, Queen of the Black Forest (where the Danube rises), a resort with a casino and other recreations; Cologne, with its world-renowned cathedral, and Oberammergau of Passion Play fame, and the rich farmlands of southern Germany.
10
Wag NERIAN FESTIVAL • Other cities have their own attractions. Bayreuth, home of Richard Wagner, contains the Festival Play House, where Wagner’s musical dramas have been performed for years.
Poland, across whose plains have surged many of the armies of history, has felt the heel of the invader many times, but is still beautiful. She is a land of many rivers and a large system of Vistula lakes. Her culture is over 1,000 years old. Her scientists and musicians rank with the world’s great. Splendid monuments bear witness to statesmen who have fought to preserve her rights among nations. Krakow, long Poland’s intellectual center, bears many landmarks of historical and artistic importance, including beautiful Gothic monuments, and Warsaw is the center of the political, economic and social life of this nation. Almost everywhere in Poland are richly-adorned church interiors and inviting byways.
Czechoslovakia • a nation of people who have
struggled for centuries for freedom, was first in Europe to fight for religious freedom. Although not proclaimed a republic separate from Austria-Hungary until 1918, the Czechs throughout history have been brothers in heart and mind, in language, literature and music. They are an artistic people, promoting national theatres and national concert orchestras. They are friendly and delight in good companionship. The country’s beautiful capital, Prague, has a