WORLD OF NEIGHBORS
We present
for your convenience and as an aid to further study, the following listings of the various pictures which make up each of the portraits found in the booklet “A World of Neighbors.”
A portrait of
England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and Eire
Battle of Bannockburn Fishing fleet Riding to Hounds Skirl of the pibroch Battle of Hastings, 1066 Clydeside shipyards The Blitz
‘'Argosies of magic sails...’ —Alfred Lord Tennyson William Shakespeare John Milton
Gainsborough’s Blue Boy The Coronation Changing the guard at Buckingham Palace Nelson Monument Houses of Parliament William Pitt Westminster Abbey The Irish Lakes
Welsh coal University Blarney Castle '
St. Patrick Sheffield steel Bank of England Racing on the Thames Weaving Irish linen Sir Isaac Newton and the Law of Gravity London “Bobby”
Fleet Street The Steeplechase King John at Runnimede, 1215 (Magna Carta) Tower of London Kylemore Abbey The Age of Elizabeth Nelson at Trafalgar
A portrait of
France, Belgium, The Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg
Blériot crosses English Channel, 1909 Dikes and windmills Rembrandt Brussels City Hall King William, the Silent Making Belgian lace Montmartre Mont-Saint-Michel Parisian flower girl Joan of Arc Notre Dame Cathedral Arc de Triomphe Constitution of Belgium Eiffel Tower City of Luxembourg Louis XIV Storming the Bastille Marshal Foch Napoleon Bonaparte
Madame Curie Victor Hugo Voltaire
Charlemagne, emperor and teacher
Prof. Picard’s Stratosphere balloon
Farm girl, Normandy Normandy castle Harvesting wine-grapes Popes’ Castle, Avignon Peace Palace, Geneva Alpine Horn Gauls and Romans Column from Roman theater, Arles Riviera resorts Roman amphitheater, Nimes Watchmaking William Tell
A portrait of
Central and Southeastern Europe
Beethoven Bavarian Alps Oberammergau Warsaw
Castle on the Rhine Steel mills, Silesia Paderewski King Sobieski Copernicus Gdynia
St. Stephan Church (Vienna)
Austrian peasants High Tatra
(Czechoslovakia )
T. G. Masaryk and Karel Capek
King Wenceslaus, Prague “Lidice Lives Forever” John Huss
On the way to church, Poland
Skyscraper in Bucharest
Alpine skiers Johann Strauss and the "Beautiful Blue Danube” King Matyas of Hungary Lajos Kossuth, Hungary Czechoslovakian glassware “Csikos”—
Hungarian Horseman Parliament (Budapest) Peles Castle, Rumania Black Sea Port of Constanta Ploesti oil fields Parliament Building, Belgrade Kolo dance Tirana, Albania Sheep herding Sofia, Bulgaria Dairying
Winnowing grain Peasant costumes
A portrait of
The Mediterranean and the Near East
Pan American World Airways Clipper over Lisbon The Bolero
Colosseum and chariot race Michelangelo Leaning Tower of Pisa Romantic Venice Magellan Vasco da Gama Columbus tells Isabella of the New World St. Peter’s Cathedral, Rome Acropolis Salonika Greek Monks Home of world-famous Port wine The Alhambra Moors
Stephen Decatur and Barbary Pirates Carthage Julius Caesar Alexander the Great Roman trireme St. Sophia, Istanbul
The Star of Bethlehem Turkish water pipes Weaving Oriental rugs Fishing fleets.
Toreadors
Leonardo da Vinci and Mona Lisa Casablanca Tel Aviv
Harem courtyard of the Past Kurfas on the Tigris, Bagdad
Rock of Gibraltar The Foreign Legion Rosetta Stone Cleopatra
Liquid gold of the Near East
Magic Carpet of the Arabian Nights Morocco Tradesmen Spahis
Market Day, Old Cairo Egyptian Pharaoh Sphinx and Pyramids Suez Canal
A portrait of
Sweden, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland
Laplanders
Paper mills and aluminum ..... plants
"Land of a thousand lakes” Geysers
The Midnight Sun Skiing
Ancient walled city of Visby, Sweden Sibelius Textiles Woodcarving Timber reserves Norwegian fjords Oslo
Yachting
Alfred Nobel
Royal Palace, Stockholm
Stockholm Town Hall
Scandinavian costumes
Farming
Dance festival
Amundsen
Stefansson
Winter sports
Lumbering
Swedish glassware Gustavus III Track meet
Kalevala, Finnish epic poem Norwegian king takes the oath Ibsen
Hydro-electric power Smorgasbord Sulphur smelter The Vikings Copenhagen Gustavus Adolphus King Olaf
The Little Mermaid, Copenhagen harbor Fish market A good catch Viking explorers Runes (ancient writings) Whaling ship Dairying King Canute Hans Christian Andersen Outdoor cafe
A portrait of
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Rachmaninoff
Chess, the popular game
Rimsky-Korsakov
Trojka
The Ballet
Vegetables from the Arctic Lenin
Polar Route explorers Peter the Great Court of Catherine the Great Count Tolstoy Village in Siberia Volga boatmen Red Square, Heart of the U. S. S. R.
Mining
Siberian logging
Dnieper electric plant Moscow Subway Victory Sword. “To the steel-hearted citizens of Stalingrad. The gift of King George VI...” Harvest time, Ukraine Blast furnaces Tamerlane Volga river steamer Out of the ruins—a new Stalingrad
Kozachok (Cossack) Dance Riviera of the Black Sea A Cossack charge Free education for all Samarkand market Around the samovar
(over)