LATIN AMERICA
THE WEST INDIES and BERMUDA
MEXICO
Resorts — Acapulco, Tampico and Mazatlan for bathing; Chapala (on Lake Chapala) is a favorite summer resort near Guadalajara. Cuernavaca, oldest vacation resort on the continent; Taxco—"untouched.” Fortin de las Flores, considered by many the garden spot of the world—to mention but a few.
Sightseeing___Mexico City’s Cathedral, National Palace
and Palace of Fine Arts; imposing, mysterious ruins at Chichen-Itza and Uxmal (Yucatan), Teotihuacan and Mitla; the floating gardens of Xochimilco; the butterfly-net fishermen on Lake Patzcuaro, the active volcano of Paricutin —are only a few sights worth seeing.
Events— Festivals and celebrations are an important part of life in Mexico. Representative occasions are: May 5— National holiday; September 16—Grito de Dolores celebration, Day of Independence, Mexico City; November 1 and 2—"All Saints” and "All Souls” days; December 12—Day of the Virgin of Guadalupe (pageants) ; December 16—Family festivals, "posadas,” to open the Christmas season. Exotic Indian dances, with fantastic costumes, can still be seen in most parts of Mexico.
CENTRAL AMERICA
The six republics of Central America—Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama-are busy garden lands, with picturesque volcanoes, shimmering lakes, and a wealth of natural products including lumber and cinchona trees, source of life-saving quinine.
Flying over the Isthmus of Panama, travelers can see to the right the Pearl Islands, center of a great pearl-fishing industry. On the left is the height of Darien, from which Balboa first viewed the Pacific, while far ahead is a glimpse of the Andes. From the altitude of the Flying Clippers, one can see both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans at the same time.
Far below is the Panama Canal, a monument to Man’s perseverance to achieve the important goal of providing a waterway between two oceans, despite heartbreaking disasters and disappointments.
Fairyland of Rio harbor at night
Sightseeing —Indian markets, Mayan ruins, and the National Palace in Guatemala; volcanic craters, weaving, coffee raising, and sugar mills in El Salvador; the ruins of Copan and the mahogany forests as well as local markets and ruins in Honduras; Nicaragua’s Leon Cathedral, lakes and volcanoes; Costa Rica’s ox-carts and National Theatre of marble and beaten gold; good hunting and fishing spots in Panama and the trip across the Isthmus on the old Panama R. R.
Events — Costa Rica—Discovery Day (Oct.) and Carnival in San Jose (end of Dec.); Guatemala—Independence Day (Sept. 15) ; Discovery Day (Oct.), and Labor Day (May 1); Honduras—Holy Week and other major religious holidays, Discovery Day (Oct. 12) and Independence Day (Sept. 15) ; Nicaragua—Battle of San Jacinto (in Sept.); Panama—Carnival (in March), Independence Days (in Nov.); El Salvador-August festivals and Independence Day (in Sept.). In addition—Christmas and the carnival season preceding Lent are widely observed throughout Central America.
SOUTH AMERICA
Venezuela’s Lake Maracaibo has acres of oil wells on "stilts” stretching for miles over the water, busy day and night pumping "liquid gold.” Travelers never fail to marvel at the sight.
In Colombia, named by early explorers "El Dorado” (the Gilded Man), are millions of coffee trees, platinum, gold and other resources.
Here, air travelers can hop in a matter of hours from the Caribbean walled seaport of Barranquilla to lovely Bogota,
Sun-lovers and water-sports enthusiasts flock to incomparable Latin American beaches. (Below: A day of pleasure on Rio's Copacabana Beach).

lagMiwwaaBMBS


Resorts — Blue Lake Atitlan, 5,000 feet up in Guatemala’s mountains, Chichicastenango has one of Guatemala’s best hotels; country resorts, Lake Coatepeque, medicinal springs and beaches near El Salvador’s capital; mountain resorts, Lake Yojoa and the beach at Tela in Honduras; Lake Nicaragua (in Nicaragua), dude ranches in Costa Rica, and Boquete, a summer resort, 4,500 feet high, in Panama.