9
Knowing how to "do the right thing’’ when you are visiting world neighbors is as valuable as when visiting your neighbors across the street. Experienced travelers say that it is always well to remember that people of other countries form their opinion of Americans and of the United States very largely from the Americans who visit them. In a sense that makes every American who travels overseas a "goodwill ambassador’’ for his country.
While people who live in other nations may live, work, play, speak and think much as we do, there are certain important things worth remembering about differences between their ways and our own. Some of them are:
Respect for traditions. "Time-honored customs’’ are more than mere catch phrases in many parts of the world. In the U. S. we are accustomed to speed, modernity, etc., much more than are many other people. Impatience is seldom considered a virtue. Ritualism may in most cases have good reason behind it. "Getting in tempo” with those who are our hosts of the moment is both good for you and good manners as well.
It is good to know that this matter of "getting in tempo” includes such little things as knowing when, and when not to, discuss business matters. Most countries have a nice habit of preceding business conversations with a suitable period of social conversation, even at "business luncheons.”
While English is widely-known and frequently used, a knowledge of a foreign language (or languages) may be useful to you as well as appreciated by those whom you meet.
The fewer comparisons you make between things in the country of your host and things in your own country the more likely it is that you will have won a friend. Particularly is this true where any such comparisons would be deprecatory to your host or to those things to which he has an attachment. Making fun of what you see and hear (whether it’s a strange gesture, a picture, or a peculiar expression) is dangerous, as it may offend. Of course, if the people among whom you are visiting themselves consider any of these' things amusing you are correct in doing so, too.
We, here, are proud of the names and accomplishments of George Washington, Lewis and Clark, Robert Fulton, the Wright Brothers, and others. It is well to remember that our world neighbors are just as proud of their great leaders. Also, of their individual and national accomplishments in all fields of endeavor. The more we know about the great men and women of other lands, of their history, ambitions, ways, the more we will be welcomed.
People of other countries know that there are some things that cannot be purchased with money. With our sports clothing and evening dresses it might be well to tuck in all we can of thoughtfulness and understanding. They are often the price of respect, service, sympathy or admiration.
There are books and novels available dealing primarily with thoughts and habits of people of other lands that should be just as much required reading for those flying abroad as are the standard guidebooks.