INDIA
and
SOUTHEASTERN ASIA
■O * f . . f	»» ^
The white alabaster Taj Mahal at Agra, India, "most sublime and beautiful work of human hands’’
marble Taj Mahal, one of the world’s most perfect architectural masterpieces with lace-work windows and minarets. Twenty-five miles west of Agra is Fatehpur Sikri, most beautiful Moghul city in India. Here is the tomb of Saint Salim Chiste, with its Pachisi Court where emperors played chess with human pawns!
All the artists, architects and contractors in India and 100,000 mechanics and decorators labored 40 years in all to build this city, at a cost to the taxpayers of $100,000,000.
Above this town is ancient, proud Delhi with its ruined forts and temples, reminders of one of the country’s older cultures; the modern city of New Delhi, only a few miles away, is the capital of India and represents the dawning new era.
In Delhi is the historic Kashmir Gate, scene of one of the most heroic deeds associated with the Great Mutiny of 1857. Here are silversmiths and embroiderers and the ceaseless flow of variegated humanity along the Queen’s Road.
India has contributed much to the history of human culture, but has labored under the burden of its huge, under-educated population. The war has changed this to some extent, and the land of Mahatma Gandhi works toward a Tomorrow which will see her citizens assuming new roles and undertaking new responsibilities in self-government. Her industrial assets have increased, and before many years she may develop a great commercial program.
Burma has guardian barriers . t0 the
East lies Burma, which is one of the least-exploited lands in the world. Its location off the main sea routes has undoubtedly been responsible for its preservation. Burma was severed from Indian rule in 1937 and is now a largely self-governing member of the British Commonwealth of Nations.
Burma is sparsely populated, unlike her mother, India. Her peoples are pleasant and handsome, and their country’s school system has placed them among the most well-educated of Asia. The majority of them are farmers although only one-tenth of the area has been devoted to agricultural pursuits; rice and rubber are the chief products.
Rangoon, her great port city, is one of the most picturesque in Asia, and its thousands of colorful pagodas give it the true atmosphere of the Orient. Mandalay, immortalized by Kipling’s “where the flyin’-fishes play,” lies in the interior.
Land OF THE WHITE ELEPHANT . Like Burma in culture and topography is Siam, whose name was changed in 1939 to Thailand (land of the free), but is again officially
Siam. This Land of the White Elephant was an independent kingdom until invaded by Japan in 1941. Her people are the Thais, descendants of the ancient inhabitants of the Yangtze Valley who were driven from their native homes in the thirteenth century by conquerors from the north.
Siam’s main occupation throughout history has been rice growing, and before the war she was the world’s third ranking rice-exporting nation. In addition she has exported much raw tin and rubber, and her teak forests have been considered among the world’s most valuable. Her picturesque, interior towns are located along the rivers and are constructed in native style, many of them consisting of thatched huts mounted on stilts to preserve them from the floods of the monsoon periods. Bangkok, capital, is a strange mingling of the old and the new with modern buildings constructed in a setting of golden Buddhist temples and Siamese shrines. Small Chinese shops line the narrow, thronged streets. Of special interest to the visitor are the brightly-colored palace buildings with tile roofs.
Indo-China, on the extreme southeast coast of Asia, has been one of the most prosperous of the French colonies. The land was originally under the control of China until French exploration in the seventeenth century led to its final acquisition by France late in the last century.
The metropolis of the country is Saigon, a “Paris of the East,” and near is its twin, Cholon. These are two of the finest cities in eastern Asia with well-paved streets and modern buildings following oriental design. In Cambodia, one of Indo-China’s territorial units, is the ancient town of Angkor, which contains some of the most well-preserved and beautiful ruins on the continent. Its palaces and temples were lost in the tropic jungles for ages.
Malaya, in the southernmost tip of Asia, is one of the most modern agricultural sections of this area. Its climate of high year-round temperature and heavy rainfall makes it ideally suited for cultivation of rubber trees, and commercial plantations represent a foreign investment of lA billion dollars. Rice, the staple food of the East, is hers, also, and represents her second important occupation.
Singapore, at the extreme tip of the Malayan peninsula, is an important crossroads and bastion. It is an island barely one dozen by two dozen miles square, separated from the mainland. Through the Straits of Singapore passes much of the sea traffic between Eastern Asia and Europe. It is a main commercial “clearing house.”
A native ruler in PalanpUr, India, leading a pageant
Raffles Hotel, famous