CHINA
"Knowledge is the basis of usefulness to mankind.
Perseverance is the basis of all achievement”
—Chinese sayings.
Marble Boat at the Manchu Summer Palace, Peiping
habit its 4,000,000 square miles, speaking about 44 languages and dialects and representing a dozen racial strains.
To see how China has lived through the centuries one should visit the old cities such as Peiping (formerly known as Peking), Soochow and Nanking.
Peiping was laid out as a capital in the 13th Century by Kublai Khan. Emperors of successive dynasties in their glamorous palaces and gardens ruled from the sacred Forbidden City, the half square mile within the red-walled Imperial City that, in turn, is surrounded by the byways and thoroughfares of northern Peiping.
The marble bridges, lotus-covered lakes, blue-domed Temple of Heaven, art treasures, gardens and palaces with their yellow-tiled roofs of the Forbidden City are remembered by many world-travelers. There was the Empress’ Palace of Treasured Beauty, and the Palaces of Fong Springtime, of Heavenly Purity and of Established Rest.
Shanghai, up-to-date international city, is more of a cosmopolitan metropolis, the commercial and industrial capital of China.
Nearby Soochow has been called the "Venice of the Orient.” This 2500-year-old walled city on the Grand Canal, cultural capital of a land of scholars, is honeycombed with bridges, canals and narrow, thronged streets, limiting traffic mainly to sedan chairs and sampans.
M EMORIAL TO SUN YAT SEN . The old southern capital of China, former capital of the National Government, Nanking, is (like Washington, D. C.) a city of "magnificent distances,” with buildings planned on a grand scale. The superb memorial to the "Father of the Republic” and leader of the 1911 revolution that overthrew the last of the Manchus, Dr. Sun Yat Sen, called China’s George Washington, is here. China celebrates October 10 as much as the United States does July 4, for on October 10, 1911, the history of modern China began.
Sun Yat Sen’s struggle for independence began in Canton, the great collecting and distributing center of southern China. Tens of thousands of people live on the motley houseboats crowding the busy Canton waterfront. Their ancestors were driven there by the Manchus. Like the Yangtze river-dwellers, their sampans are the center of their existence; many hardly ever set foot on land.
Hong Kong, once an almost uninhabited island, but now a great port city of 1,650,000, is noted for its emerald hills, sapphire bays, dark gorges and rugged slopes where ma-
rauding pirates once ruled but where now row on row of houses, like layers of wedding cake frosting, rise to the cool summits.
The attractions of interior China, for centuries denied to travelers who disliked the inconveniences of sedan chair, houseboat, goatskin raft, or donkey travel, are now (thanks to aviation) becoming available. There is much to see there —rocky river gorges, ice-crowned mountains of the Himalayas, pilgrims journeying to hill temples, and what may one day be the world’s best dude ranch country. Here is Chungking, for nearly seven years China’s wartime capital, that once held the title of "world’s most-bombed city.”
China National Aviation Corporation, the partnership operation of the Chinese National Government and Pan American World Airways, the story of whose vital wartime activities remains to be told, was serving the major cities of China before the Japanese attack. CNAC has plans to still further expand its services with the return of peace. These services would offer the tourist an opportunity easily and quickly to visit hundreds of interesting inland points.
There is Tibet for example, a high plateau near the Himalayan "Roof of the World,” with cold winds and little rainfall, mysterious and once remote. This is "Shangri-la” country, bordered by the highest mountains in the world, including Mt. Everest, where the Yangtze River has its origins. Lhasa, the capital, is the sacred city of the dalai lama.
Heartland of asia” • North of Tibet is sin-
kiang, with a mixed Turkish, Russian and Mongolian population, mostly nomads, although there are a few rich oases. This "heartland of Asia” has rich mineral resources (gold, copper, coal and oil) and lies on the historic path of commercial and cultural exchange between East and West. China has large coal deposits, potential hydro-electric sources and lesser amounts of other minerals, including iron ore and antimony (70% of the world’s supply). Manchuria, with steel, lumber, machine tools, synthetic oils, chemicals, electric power, and food for 70,000,000 people (almost twice the Manchurian population) promises to become China’s industrial Pennsylvania.
A fourth of the world’s raw silk and much of its tea have come from China. Cotton is a third important export.
"Next door” to China is Korea, also known as the "Hermit Kingdom,” with a history dating back to the 12th Century, B. C.