BETWEEN Alaska and the United States stretches the Dominion of Canada, in area the third largest nation in the world; only the U.S.S.R. and China are larger. In spite of its size, its density of population is only 3 people per square mile.
Canada and the United States have accepted as a matter of fact and without attention that of which they should justly boast—their friendship. Here are two great nations, living side-by-side for generations with a common 4,000-mile boundary, and without the slightest tendency toward discord. There are no fortifications on their borders, and no incidents to mar this harmony. United States friendship with Canada is not an accident; Canadians and Americans are peoples of the same interests and the same ways of living.
The early histories of the two countries are similar; in many cases the pioneers of one were the pioneers of the other. Leif Ericsson discovered Canada about the year 1000 A.D., but the first real explorers in the country were Jacques Cartier and his Frenchmen in 1534. Later the British, also, established colonies along its coast.
Like Alaska, Canada is infinitely wealthy in tourist attractions and natural resources. She leads the world in production of nickel, newsprint, asbestos, platinum and radium. She is second in the production of woodpulp and gold; third
in aluminum, copper, zinc, cobalt and silver; fourth in wheat and lead. Every year there is a "migration” of harvest hands to the golden wheat fields of the western plains.
In Canada you can enjoy the rest of a life-time. There is Quebec, only walled city in North America, home of winter sports, quaint historic streets and French Colonial buildings.
From the scenic, historical Maritime Provinces, "Canada’s birthplace,” where you can choose between miles of smooth beaches, quaint villages and busy farms, it is not far to the picturesque, unspoiled Gaspe Peninsula and the peaceful, romantic Evangeline country.
Northwest Canada is a dream-like vacation land of romantic scenery, dude ranches, lakes and peaks, the tang of the pine woods, and scarlet-coated Mounties.
We-
iALTH OF ATTRACTIONS . Canada ’s cities are tourist drawing-cards. Ottawa, with its stately Parliament Buildings, is the capital. Montreal, the largest city, is noted for its beauty and its churches. Toronto, Canada’s second city, has the tallest building and the largest hotel in the British Commonwealth of Nations. Vancouver, beautifully situated between the sea and the mountains, is Canada’s great Pacific port.
An idea of Canada’s farming potentialities may be gleaned