THE
PACIFIC WORLD
and fruit are its produce. Its sheep ranches are well-known throughout the world, producing over 110,000,000 head annually. Fine-grade wool is exported in record quantities.
The Great Barrier Reef of coral, paralleling much of the eastern coast, is one of the world’s wonders.
“Welcome to Hawaii” with the rhythm of the hula
Volcanoes and geysers • The two islands of
New Zealand lie off the southeast coast of Australia; they, too, comprise a self-governing Dominion. With a climate similar to that of the Atlantic Coast of the United States, they contain some of the most picturesque and unusual scenic displays in the world. Volcanoes climb into the heavens, and at their bases bubble hot springs and geysers.
New Zealand, too, has its quota of strange life for here blossom many rare plants found nowhere else in the world. Among its animals are the kiwi, a bird which can’t fly. Frogs, lizards and fish of primitive species still dwell in its inland waters. New Zealand is a great dairyland. Sheep-and cattle-raising are the islands’ main occupations.
The Maoris, island natives, are among the most advanced peoples in the world. Their villages, handicrafts and folklore are well-known attractions.
The Philippine Islands, off the coast of Indo-China, are still among the most-beautiful of tropical paradises. Their largest city, and capital of the Philippine Commonwealth, is Manila, on the island of Luzon. Across the bay from it are the Bataan Peninsula and the fortress of Corregidor, names that will live forever in the memory of free men. Among her most famous sights is the Intramuros, the Spanish walled city dating back to the era of the first European settlers. Slumbering volcanoes dot the islands, and the climate, perfect for luxuriant vegetation, fosters all kinds of tropical fruits in abundance, and has made fruit-farming a major industry.
L.URE FOR ADVENTURERS • In addition to Australia, New Zealand and the Philippines, the principal island groups of the South Pacific are: The East Indies, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia.
The Netherlands East Indies are the rich tropic lands of precious metals, of beautiful silks and rich spices, which have lured adventurers throughout history. But their most recent wealth has been their rubber needed by the world.
Sumatra and Borneo are the largest of the East Indies, and, although Java is third in size, it is the most densely populated. In fact, its population density is among the greatest in the world. Celebes and Moluccas are smaller chains. On the island of Java was discovered the fossil skeleton of a prehistoric man believed to be the predeces-
sor of the human race. The remarkable Buddhist ruins of Borobudur are world-renowned. The tiger, elephant, bear, rhinoceros and leopard challenge the big game hunter.
In the East Indies, Nature has given of her wealth in greatest measure. In addition to rubber, these islands export oil, fruits, coffee, tea, spices, tobacco, nuts and woods.
The Melanesian group enjoyed little prominence until World War II called it to public attention. The battles of the Coral Sea, the Solomon Islands, Guadalcanal and Bougainville are now part of its indelible history.
New Guinea is the second largest island in the world. All islands of this group are tropical in nature with corresponding luxuriant plant and animal life.
Micronesia derives its name from the fact that its islands are so small. Here, too, many names have been uncovered by war headlines: Truk, the Carolines, Palau, Saipan, Tarawa, etc.
Polynesia lies northeast of New Zealand and includes the Hawaiian Islands and Samoa. As do no other islands, the Hawaiian chain symbolizes for us the glamour and richness of the tropical South Seas. Their foaming surf, white beaches, languid nights, rustling palms, Diamond Head, Waikiki Beach and hospitable climate invite us to share their beauty. The Hawaiians, themselves, are renowned for their fishing prowess, athletic skill and love of dancing.
EaRTH’S BEAUTY SPOT • Huge volcanoes, that have poured forth their lava, bear witness to the origin of the islands. No valuable ores exist in any great quantity; Nature seems to have concentrated her entire energy upon making this particular spot the most beautiful on earth.
Samoa, small mid-Pacific refueling station, has its own identifying characteristics, too; it is the home of the pure Polynesian, one of the most handsome, physically perfect and intelligent of races of the world.
Japan proper consists of four main islands. The capital, Tokyo, with an estimated population of 7,000,000 was one of the three largest cities in the world. Three-fourths of the world’s silk output before the war came from Japan. Mount Fujiyama, cataracts and Shinto shrines were tourist drawing cards.
Luxurious Pan American World Airways Hotel on Wake Island in the mid-Pacific
You can feed the kangaroos in the Sydney Zoo
WaN*'
(board nd'n&
SU'
Thrift O' lhn'