A portrait of India and Southeastern Asia, part of A World of Neighbors
of Darjeeling to gaze at the beautiful peaks. Few beauty spots excel the Vale of Kashmir, chief health resort for Europeans in India. In the jungles are tigers, jackals, hyenas, wolves, rhinos and elephants for adventurous hunters.
HE mysterious land of India
of the strangest,
is one
1 most colorful and most romantic countries in the world.
1 From earliest history its reputation for vast riches, precious gems and rare spices lured the adventurers from Europe who risked the long, arduous sea trip around Africa’s Cape of Good Hope to India’s shores in search of its bounties. The greatest of these was Columbus, who sought an easier and shorter route to the East, landed on an island in the Caribbean and called the natives "Indians,” thinking he had landed in India. %	$■
Even today, India remains as replete with mysticism as it was centuries ago. Strangely-garbed Hindus worship their sacred cows; Moslems kneel in prayer toward Mecca; bearded Sikhs, friendly for all their fierce appearance, comprise the police force to keep law and order; the Parsees, originally from Persia, with shiny black, horsehair hats, followers of the prophet Zoroaster, are the merchants; the warlike Gurkhas are part of the Indian Army, largest volunteer army in the world. All these, one-fifth the population of the world, live their separate lives and follow their own, unusual customs in an area less than half the size of the United States. •
Nearby Nepal claims possession of the highest mountain in the world, Mt. Everest, whose peak stretches upward for five miles above sea level. Tourists flock to the lovely city
Colorful and fashionable Bombay.
Bombay, most modern, enterprising and prosperous city of India, has more racial types than almost any other city. Here are women wearing beautiful silver ornaments and gay colors and men in pink turbans, scarlet stockings, green scarfs and gold-embroidered purple robes. Tourists in Bombay always flock to see the thronged bazaars, fashionable residential Malabar Hill, the famous caves and rock temples of the Island of Elephants, the hanging gardens and the Parsee "Towers of Silence.”
To the East is the sacred Ganges River which flows through the most densely populated section of the country. At its mouth, Calcutta, modern "city of Palaces,” is the second largest city in the British Commonwealth of Nations, London being the first. Benares, farther up the river, is the holy city of the Hindus, where for 20 centuries ten thousand worshippers a month cleanse themselves spiritually by bathing in its waters.
Farther inland is Agra which boasts of the famous white