FRANCE • BELGIUM THE NETHERLANDS SWITZERLAND • LUXEMBOURG
less villages. The French have an appreciation of good food and matchless wines, and French chefs are world-famous. What "pubs” are to the British as social centers, cafes are to Frenchmen. At their bars (bistros) workmen, in velvet pantaloons and berets, meet each other.
There are great commercial cities, such as Lyon, center of the silk industry, the ports of Le Havre, Cherbourg and Bordeaux, and the industrial centers of the Channel region, but thrifty French farmers form the largest single group in the nation.
FrANCE FAMOUS FOR AGES • Throughout all the years of German occupation in World War II France continued to resist the invaders. In almost every age France has achieved fame . . . There was the epic of Roland, the great cathedrals and universities, Rabelais, Montaigne, the Three Musketeers ... and schools of literature, art and philosophy centered around Moliere, Racine, Descartes and others. After 1700 Voltaire and Montesquieu pointed the way toward social reforms. Pasteur, Victor Hugo, Cezanne, Rodin and Debussy figured in the next century.
France has ranked fourth in the world in "visible” foreign trade (i.e., other than credit exchanges). In general her imports have been fuels, raw materials and certain foods, and exports mainly manufactured goods (including silks, rare cheeses, gloves, wines and jewelry).
Belgium, most densely-populated country in Europe and highly industrialized, has skilled workers to turn out her exports of machinery, steel, cut diamonds, textiles and glassware, much of which in peacetime came to the U.S.A.
Julius Caesar eulogized the bravery of the "Belgae.” After Caesar’s Romans came the Franks and, later, the rule of the Houses of Burgundy and Hapsburg. Near Brussels, the capital, is Waterloo, where Napoleon was defeated in 1815. Again in 1914 Belgium became a battlefield—“In Flanders fields the poppies grow . . .” and in 1944 the Battle of the Bulge marked Germany’s death throes.
Belgian cities flourished in the Middle Ages and town halls and guild halls, from as early as the 13th Century, are masterpieces of civic architecture. Liege, now a great steel center, became a literary and artistic center in the 10th Century; Bruges, famous for laces, canals and architecture, featured in Dante’s Divine Comedy.
Few tourists have failed to see the "flower town” of Ghent, the seaport resort of Ostend, the wool and textile center of Verviers, and Antwerp, diamond center and one of the world’s greatest ports.
Luxembourg’s capital, a "rose-red city, half as old as
Place de l’Opera, Paris
time,” typifies her attractiveness for world travelers. Symbolic are these words of the Luxembourg National Anthem: "Where you see the slow Alzette flow, the Sura play wild pranks, where lovely vineyards amply grow on the Mosella’s banks...” Agriculture, iron mining and steel manufacturing are the chief industries.
The people of The Netherlands have had to fight two enemies for their land—the sea and foreign rulers.
The sea is relentless. Five hundred years ago the first windmills were built, not to ornament the landscape but for the very vital task of controlling water levels. Draining of the Zuider Zee, a great lake formed when the sea 1,000 years ago broke through the dunes, is an amazing engineering feat to provide 700 square miles of much-needed land for grazing and raising of sugar beets and potatoes. There are 1,500 miles of dikes and 4,500 miles of canals.
Tourist attractions are manifold. Rotterdam, Continental Europe’s largest transit port, was the first place from which the Pilgrims sailed in 1620. Amsterdam, capital and financial hub (Holland was the eighth prewar commercial power in the world), is a diamond center, with Rembrandt’s home, the Royal Palace, and elm-bordered canals. Volen-dam is the place to see fishermen in wooden shoes and voluminous pantaloons unload their catch. At Alkmaar you can see white-uniformed carriers in broad-brimmed hats carrying fresh round cheeses on wooden barrows, while brightly-colored tulips bloom in many a field.
HOME OF RED CROSS • Napoleon in 1803 declared "Nature destined Switzerland to become a League of states; no wise man would attempt to conquer it.” The legendary William Tell represents resistance to outside rule. For 100 years the Swiss have had compulsory military service but have not fought a war in that time. Instead, during World War II, Switzerland continued to serve as the home of the International Red Cross, filling the role of intermediary.
Switzerland, the hub of Europe, is dominated by the lofty Alps. They cover three-fifths of the 15,700 square miles, many with peaks over 10,000 feet high. Glaciers, steep slopes (ideal for winter sports) and sun-bathed valleys dotted with Alpine flowers characterize the land.
The idea and practice of liberty, in all its forms, are reasons Switzerland has been able to assimilate three regions with four languages: French, Romansh, German and Italian. Basis of Swiss democracy are the self-governing communes.
errnmet
narcissus neias near Haarlem
