The TravelAssist Network can provide invaluable travel information—before you leave and while you ’re away.
You can stay up to date on important developments at home through our 24-hour message relay service.
Our extensive worldwide resources can provide you with emergency medical and legal assistance, virtually anywhere you may be.
Prior to your trip, our specialists can help with personal requests—such as arrangements for a special celebration.
If you need additional cash, we can help you locate the nearest source of funds.
Around-the-clock, around-the-world support from the TravelAssist Network lets you travel with greater peace of mind.
Travel Information
Our extensive resources enable us to provide you with prompt answers to a wide variety of travel questions.
For example, we can advise you about visa and inoculation requirements for countries you might visit, as well as the weather conditions to expect. And you can call us for exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currency in use at your destination.
The TravelAssist Network can also supply information on sporting or cultural events, local festivals and special activities that coincide with your trip.
Special Arrangements
For personal requests, such as locating tickets to a championship tournament or a popular show you might want to attend while traveling, contact TravelAssist Network before you leave. We can advise you of the availability of seating and, when possible, make the arrangements you require.
By planning prior to your vacation, you can receive the assistance of our staff with arrangements for a special celebration during your trip. These might include coordinating with an elegant restaurant to present the gift you’ve purchased as an anniversary surprise... or with a hotel to have flowers and a favorite wine waiting in your room, and perhaps a limousine in the drive.
24-Hour Message Relay
If you’re expecting important news while you’re away, you’ll appreciate our around-the-clock message relay. For example, you may want your associates to keep you up to date on business developments. Or perhaps you’re leaving your children in someone’s care and need to be informed if problems arise.
This convenient, multilingual service enables you to stay in contact easily, no matter how active your tour. Those at home can leave a message for you any time of day or night,' and the TravelAssist Network will relay it to you, or you can retrieve it when it’s convenient for you. So there’s no difficulty with communicating because of time-zone differences.
Funds Access
When you need additional cash-fora purchase, an unexpected activity, or simply to get through a weekend until the banks reopen-call the TravelAssist Network.
We can help you find the nearest location where you can obtain funds. In extreme cases, such as when your money is lost or stolen, our Network can also arrange for funds to be delivered, upon satisfactory guarantee of reimbursement.
Foreign Language Interpretation And Translation
When you don’t speak the language and need to communicate, our multilingual assistance coordinators can help. They can interpret for you, in situations ranging from describing your medical condition to a local physician, to speaking on your behalf with a merchant or an official.
Our coordinators provide telephone interpretation in all major languages. In addition, they can help you locate and arrange for the services of a local translator, when necessary.
Lost Or Stolen Documents
If your travel documents are missing, the TravelAssist Network will identify and contact all the appropriate authorities. In addition, Network professionals will give you the information you need for recovering or replacing your documents and, where possible, arrange for their immediate shipment and delivery.
If your baggage is delayed or lost, the TravelAssist Network will coordinate with Pan Am to keep you informed on the tracing process. When your luggage is found, the Network will help make sure that it is forwarded to the correct destination and delivered to you as soon as possible.
Medical Assistance
Prescription replacement. If you’ve lost or misplaced your medication, or another important item such as your eyeglasses, the TravelAssist Network can help you locate a replacement. And if necessary, we can often arrange a delivery.
In the event of sickness or accident. When you’re ill and far from home, the TravelAssist Network will be standing by. Our carefully screened, worldwide resources enable us to help you find the highest quality care possible.
The assistance experts at the TravelAssist Network can tell you what medical facilities are nearby and what physician they’d recommend for your case. (In a true emergency, you should, of course, proceed directly to the nearest hospital.)
Once you begin treatment, our assistance professionals will follow through and monitor your condition by checking in regularly with your local doctor and you. They will also establish contact with your personal physician and your relatives, if you wish.
If you are traveling with dependents who require someone to look after them while you are ill, the TravelAssist Network will provide qualified care.
Emergency evacuation. In a crisis, if the treatment you need isn’t readily available, the TravelAssist Network can arrange to have you medically evacuated to the next nearest point of good medical care, upon satisfactory guarantee of reimbursement.
Please note: Any expenses you incur will be your responsibility. Since insurance is not included in TravelAssist Network service, you may wish to consider Pan Am Holidays Tour Insurance Program for coverage at reasonable rates. Details are included in your travel document package, and your travel agent can answer any questions you may have about obtaining insurance.
Guarantee of payment to providers. If a medical provider refuses treatment without prepayment, the TravelAssist Network will contact the provider directly to guarantee your expenses, upon satisfactory assurance of reimbursement. When necessary, the TravelAssist Network will even have the funds delivered to the provider.
Visitor arrangements. If you are hospitalized for more than 10 days, the TravelAssist Network will arrange for a visit from a friend or family member, with transportation arranged by Pan Am Holidays. Meals, accommodations and incidental expenses will be the responsibility of your visitor.
Legal Assistance
Our multilingual coordinators can advise you in minor matters-such as a traffic violation or a dispute with a merchant-if you are uncertain what local laws apply and what your rights are.
If you require the services of a local attorney, they can also provide you with a referral.
Advance of bail. The TravelAssist Network will secure and post bail bonds, where they are available and permitted by local law. If required, the Network will advance bail, upon satisfactory guarantee of reimbursement.
Guarantee of legal fees. The TravelAssist Network can help you make billing arrangements to pay for legal fees and can advance funds, upon satisfactory guarantee of reimbursement.
How To Contact
The TravelAssist Network
You can contact the TravelAssist Network by calling collect, using the USADIRECT telephone numbers on the enclosed cards. When you call, you’ll be connected quickly with an English-speaking AT&T operator who will place your call. Without delays or language problems. Just identify yourself as a Pan Am Holidays tour member, and state the tour number listed on the cards.
Be sure to remove your USADIRECT cards and carry them with you at all times while you’re away on your Pan Am Holidays vacation.
You’ll also want to retain this brochure as a reminder of the many services provided by the TravelAssist Network.
TravelAssist Network
Just call if you need us.
4 If for any reason you are unable to make a collect call, you may contact the TravelAssist Network by facsimile or telex transmission. You will be reimbursed for any charges incurred in sending the transmission.
Lost Luggage