Yes, just touch that convenient call button. Your steward and stewardess are most anxious to serve you. Please do not offer tips, because service of the highest standard is part of every Clipper ticket.
„„ Clock ¿%^and
at Your Finger Tips
-Ml THE YUM
NON-STOP
A FULL NIGHT’S SLEEP £ N R OUTE
Sleeper-equipped Clippers provide you with luxury and comfort all the way. A 3,000 mile journey becomes a delightful interlude. You retire to your berth at your regular bedtime hour, enjoy a restful night’s sleep and arrive at your destination the next mornijig. Your trip is completed with unbelievable ease and the time saved gives you many added days to devote to business or pleasure.
Even when you’re snugly tucked in bed, steward or stewardess service is at your finger tips. Simply push the call button—and you’ll be served. Immediately!
The new Clipper seats are comfort-engineered. They are readily adjustable to the sitting position you like best. Each has an individual reading light, ash tray and call button.
You’ll say we’ve thought of everything when you see the individual mirror in the comfortable upper berth—one of the many added conveniences on the new’ Flying Clippers.
When you’re in the mood for complete relaxation, just ease the seat back to a reclining position and—Mmmm—you’re matching the comfort of that favorite chair at home.
fly	Pt/v American and arrive
READY FOR BUSINESS OR PLEASURE
Each berth is equipped with a 110-volt power outlet for electric razors. Yes, sir . . . we have extra shavers on board for your use.
Just ask the steward.
^OOT
A9en'
Pan American’s overnight sleeper service is a natural development of its first trans-Atlantic sleeper service established in 1939. If you prefer, you can travel by non-stop Clipper in comfortable, deep-cushioned, reclining chairs at regular Flying Clipper fares. Whether you choose a berth or a seat, these new Constellation-type Clippers assure you a comfortable trip every minute of the way.
If you’d like to get together with travel companions for dining, the steward or stewardess will arrange the seats. Just press the call button.
«**% vo
the Ne«
Off'«