■

Leader of Pan American Juan T. Trippe is now Executive Officer.
Priester, who was later to become a key figure in establishing Pan Am’s record for safety and high engineering standards.
Discussions then began between the three groups, although each continued to try to strengthen its own position. New York Airways was incorporated as Southern Air Lines on July 8, 1927; Pan American Airways won the Key West-Havana contract on July 16; the Chambers-Hoyt group formed Atlantic, Gulf and Caribbean Airways on October 11.
To comply with the terms of the mail contract, and to save $25,000 deposited as a cash guarantee, Pan American was obliged to make a flight not later than October 19.
Possessing no aircraft, the company saved both its reputation and money by the fortuitous arrival in Florida of a Fairchild FC-2 floatplane La Nina on a delivery flight to West Indian Aerial Express, a small airline which had just started operations in Santo Domingo. Hastily chartered by Pan American, the pilot, Cy Caldwell, flew 30,000 letters from Key West to Havana on October 19, 1927. This flight was Pan American’s first, and marked as it were, the end of the preface to its history.
Nine days later, regular mail services began with the Fokkers and passengers were carried from January 16, 1928. On March 8, the Foreign Air Mail Act was passed by Congress and on March 30, the Postmaster-General, W. F. Brown, advertised for bids on a wide-ranging network of mail routes throughout Latin America.
Industrial sparring continued, with Juan Trippe holding a vital trump card—Cuban operating rights, obtained from President Machado himself. Pan American could thus exercise its mail franchise only with the cooperation of the Aviation Corporation. Trippe never forgot the success of these tactics, and his subsequent long-term planning policy was to be characterised by this foresight in securing its foreign footholds.
The three groups finally merged on June 23, 1928, by forming the Aviation Corporation of the Americas, with Pan American Airways as its operating subsidiary. Success was assured, as the new company fitted exactly the concept of a chosen instrument for US overseas air mail service, visualised by the Postmaster-General.
Pan American was awarded every foreign air mail route for which bids were invited, at the maximum rate,
$2 per mile. Lower competitive bids were meaningless without the security of foreign operating rights which
for all of its 40 years, Chairman and Chief
Trippe had shrewdly obtained, often by purchase of stock in foreign companies. These included, in 1928, West Indian Aerial Express, Peruvian Airways, and Chilean Airways; in 1929, Compania Mexicana de Aviacion and Pan-American-Grace Airways (founded jointly with the W. R. Grace shipping company); and in 1930, SCADTA, and the New York, Rio and Buenos Aires Line (NYRBA) and its subsidiary, NYRBA do Brasil (which later became Panair do Brasil).
This last company was the biggest threat to Trippe, for it, too, was backed by substantial financial interests, including former Pan American promoters Montgomery and Bevier. They had secured the rights down the South American east coast by establishing NYRBA do Brasil, but with such a long and costly route, mail contracts were all-important. The Postmaster-General withheld an award of the east coast US mail contract, as, to quote his testimony before the Black Committee some years later, “ competitive bidding in the airmail business is of doubtful value and is more or less of a myth ”.
Thus began Pan American’s amazing programme of expansion in Latin America, a story which has been chronicled so well before that only the main events need be mentioned here. Mail and passenger service opened to San Juan on January 9, 1929, Cristobal (Canal Zone) on February 4, Mexico City on March 10, Santiago (Chile) on July 12, Paramaribo on September 23, and to Montevideo, via Santiago and Buenos Aires on October 12, 1929. The east coast service reached Santos on November 27, 1930, and completed the circle to Buenos Aires on November 23, 1931.
During this pioneering period, the standard aircraft used in the Caribbean was a versatile little amphibian, the Sikorsky S-38; in Central America and down the South American west coast, the Ford Tri-Motor; and on the east coast the elegant Consolidated Commodore, taken over with the assets of NYRBA. These types formed the nucleus of the Pan American fleet until the advent on November 19, 1931, of the Sikorsky S-40, the first of the four-engined flying-boats which were to launch the “ Clipper ” trademark of Pan American service.
This Fokker F-7, piloted by Hugh Wells, ►-flew Pan Am’s first official flight, from Key West, Miami, Florida, to Havana on October 28, 1927. As the story reveals, however, there was an interesting preface (pictured overleaf) involving an earlier flight.
>> -
Wt