A sight to delight the lover of flying-boats—the elegant ► Consolidated Commodore which Pan American operated along the South American east coast in the early years.
■ WBm I ..
- V
%*■ap	■■ ■
* .	«4•	.
scheme. On June 26, 1931, it had issued a specification to leading manufacturers for a trans-ocean, high-speed, multi-motored flying-boat, with a practical range of at least 2,500 miles—adequate for the California-Hawaii stage. The next year, designs were accepted from both Martin and Sikorsky for the M-130 and the S-42 respectively.
In contrast with the route to Europe, there were fewer political problems. Hawaii, Midway Island, Wake Island, Guam, and the Philippines were US territories, and at that time China was firmly in the American sphere of influence. On the other hand, apart from Honolulu, there were no flying-boat facilities and Pan American accordingly tackled this new problem with characteristic zeal.
On March 27, 1935, the North Haven, a 15,000-ton cargo ship, left Pier 22 at San Francisco, loaded with two complete villages, five air bases, 250,000 gallons of fuel, 44 airline technicians, 74 construction staff, with appropriate provisions, including motor launches, landing barges, electric generators, windmills, water storage equipment, and fuel tanks. During that Summer, complete flying-boat bases were constructed and equipped at Midway, Wake and Guam, and the bases at Honolulu and Manila reinforced.
On April 16 an S-42 left San Francisco on a series of survey flights to Manila, proceeding sensibly by making a round trip to Honolulu first, and then adding an extra sector with each successive flight. The success of the inaugural mail service by the M-130 China Clipper was a foregone conclusion. On November 22, 1935, 125,000 people watched Captain Musick take off from San Francisco. Thousands welcomed him at Manila, right on schedule, six days later. True to sound safety standards, however, almost a year passed before the first transpacific passengers were carried, on October 21, 1936.
-4 Juan Trippe and Col. Charles Lindbergh, technical adviser to Pan American, stand rather close to the revolving propellers of one of the airline’s Fokker F-10 tri-motor airliners. These aircraft served Central America during the pioneer period.
approve Pan American’s request for a permit, subject to the US Government’s approval of that airline. This was duly given in September, 1936. Pan American’s time-honoured consolidation of all the necessary preliminary qualifying conditions made this inevitable.
Elsewhere in Europe, discussions with DNL, the Norwegian airline, resulted in an agreement of mutual assistance, involving Norwegian landing and traffic rights. Studies were made for a Sikorsky S-43 route from Reykjavik, Iceland, to Stavanger, Norway, via the Faroe and Shetland Islands. DNF ordered an S-43 in 1936, but plans fell through because of delays in aircraft production and difficulties with the Norwegian and Icelandic Governments.
Compared with these protracted negotiations the Pacific route offered an easier passage. On July 27, 1931, Colonel and Mrs. Findbergh had made a survey flight to the Orient in a Lockheed Sirius. On June 11, 1932, by an internal corporate reorganisation, Pan American created Pacific-Alaska Airways, which thereupon purchased two Alaskan airlines. On March 31, 1933, another airline came into the fold, China National Aviation Corporation (CNAC) which held the franchise for the Chinese coastal route between Shanghai and Hong Kong; and on November 13, 1934, acquisition of Alaska Southern Airways eliminated another missing link, between Seattle and the southernmost point in Alaska territory.
Failure to reach agreement with the USSR foiled this plan for a great circle route, but, true to form, Pan American had taken precautions with an alternative
V : , - 7/ ¿j'-i:/. «v ¡-v	7 :.;;v -- m	v	» w	^ H'i
.... *
...