The very first flight in the name of Pan ► American was made in this Fairchild FC-2 on October 19, 1927. Chartered by Pan Am to fulfil their original mail contract and piloted by Cy Caldwell, who later became an aviation journalist, it flew 30,000 letters (specimen below) from Key West to T Havana.
RESTA ‘ ALFR
RIS
VIA
IAIL
MR. E. HELLER, PLACIDO # 3.
The United States had lagged behind the rest of the world in its acceptance of air transport by some five or six years. Pan American’s rapid progress, however, epitomised the tremendous efforts made to catch up. The four-engined S-40 was in service only four years after the little FC-2.
Paradoxically, the company’s first trans-ocean route, San Francisco-Manila, via the Central Pacific, did not result from the initial plans, which had begun in 1929, when preliminary talks were held with Imperial Airways and the French Aéropostale. A joint enterprise, the Pan American-Imperial Airways Company, was formed on May 14, 1930, and later that year terms were discussed on utilising the French exclusive landing concession at the Azores (Portuguese territory), an objective reached on January 1, 1932.
At this time, non-stop flights between California and Hawaii, or Newfoundland and Ireland, were considered impracticable, and plans revolved around possible services to east Asia, via Alaska and Siberia, and to Europe, via Greenland and Iceland. Efforts to reach Europe started modestly on August 1, 1931, with S—41 flights between Boston and Halifax, on behalf of Boston-Maine Airways. The service lasted only one season, but provided experience in climatic and marine conditions contrasting with those of the Caribbean. Simultaneously, in the latter area, where hitherto operations had seldom
been out of sight of land, Commodores were flying the 600-mile non-stop leg between Kingston, Jamaica and Cristobal, as a proving ground for advanced direction-finding and navigational apparatus.
In July, 1932, Pan American purchased from Trans-American Airlines (one of the predecessor companies of American Airlines) a 75-year Icelandic landing concession, and obtained from Denmark authority to study the possibility of regular airline services across Greenland (a Danish territory). The company obtained the services of the distinguished Arctic explorer and scientist, Dr. Vilhjalmur Stefansson, and participated in two exploratory expeditions to Greenland during the winter of 1932-33.
In 1933, Colonel Lindbergh, Pan American’s Technical Adviser, conducted an expedition to Scandinavia, via Greenland and Iceland, using the S.S. Jelling as a supply ship for investigating meteorology, airports and harbours, and terrain. He reported that the difficulties of operating air services via the northern latitudes had been greatly exaggerated.
On December 12, 1935, the State Department announced that understandings had been reached with several countries to facilitate trans-Atlantic air transport; and the Director-General of Civil Aviation of Great Britain advised the Secretary of Commerce that he would
The standard aircraft used for the Caribbean services in Pan Am’s formative years was the Sikorsky S-38 amphibian.