A Thirty-three years later, Pan American uses modern electronic and mechanical equipment to process freight at its $8-5 million cargo terminal at New York’s Kennedy International Airport.
▲ The scene at Pan Am’s Miami base on August I, 1934, when, with Railway Express Agency, they inaugurated international air freight services linking domestic and foreign points. The flying-boat is the Sikorsky S-40 American Clipper.
PAN AMERICAN A
eliminate a monopoly situation. TWA and American Export Airlines (later American Overseas) became formidable competitors on the North Atlantic; Northwest obtained the North Pacific route via Alaska—ironically the one which Pan Am had tried to develop in the early 1930s; United gained a share in the lucrative California-Hawaii traffic; and Braniff and others entered the Latin American scene.
Some of the competition was eliminated by the purchase of American Overseas Airlines on September 25, 1950, the first major act under the new corporate title, Pan American World Airways, Inc. But elsewhere the competition was intensified, notably in South America, where eventually both the west and east coast airlines originally set up by Pan American were to fall into other hands, coincidentally in the same year. Braniff has recently taken over PANAGRA; and VARIG, the Brazilian national carrier, has absorbed Panair do Brasil, from which, however, Pan American interest had already been sold in 1961.
In the Caribbean, Pan American now meets US rivalry in Eastern Air Lines, Trans-Caribbean Airways, and Delta Air Lines; and a new route battle is in full swing at the CAB for massive Pacific rights, with a dozen major carriers exerting maximum effort to gain access to what is widely accepted as the World’s best future airline profit-making area, the North Atlantic excepted.
Two organisations, each serving most ► of the World, meet in association as they have done for four decades. On the occasion of the opening of the first direct Berlin-New York service, on May 31, 1964, the Pan American DC-8 is fueled by Esso at Berlin-Tegel Airport in readiness for its westward flight.
A chronicle of the introduction of new Pan American aircraft types is synonymous with a catalogue of the World’s long-haul airliners over the years. All thoughts of flying-boat operation cast aside, the Constellation entered North Atlantic service on January 14, 1946, and also opened the World’s first round-the-world scheduled service on June 17, 1947 (actually New York-San Lrancisco, the long way round, as Pan American was then not allowed to fly domestic routes; the final link was completed as recently as April 2, this year). On June 3, 1949, the Boeing Stratocruiser introduced a new standard of comfort and these homely-looking aircraft remained popular in the face of replacement types, largely because of the special appeal of the downstairs cocktail lounge.
Pan American came dangerously close to being overhauled technically when BOAC introduced jet airline service with de Havilland Comet Is in 1952. The date coincided with Pan American’s launching of tourist class “ Rainbow ” service, with Douglas DC-6Bs. Although the 6B was a distinguished aircraft from a thoroughbred line, it appeared to be outclassed by the British type flying at almost double the speed. But Pan
10