

1937 had ended tragically after two months’ operations) and on the Central Pacific route Singapore became a co-terminal with Manila on May 2, 1941. An African service was opened to Leopoldville, via Bathurst (Gambia) and Lagos on December 6,
1941, one day before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour.
Improvements were made in South America. Since the opening of the east coast route via Recife, the company had sought a more direct service to Rio de Janeiro. Unfortunately, the Brazilian interior was almost devoid of surface transport and building a modern airfield at a strategic point demanded special efforts.
Nevertheless, a modern airport was built in six months, at Barreiras,
800 miles up the Sao Francisco River.
Men and materials were shipped, first by rail, then by river barge, an operation complicated by having to change the site location after much work had been done. When completed, in September, 1940, Pan American opened a Boeing 307 service to Belem, where it connected with a Rio-bound DC-3, stopping only at Barreiras.
To safeguard its interests on the political front in Latin America, Pan American and its associate PANAGRA, exercised pressure to eliminate German influence in a number of airlines. In 1941 PANAGRA services replaced those of German-supported airlines in Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia; German personnel were eliminated from the Colombian SCADTA; and the Condor airline in Brazil, the fountain-head of German influence throughout the continent, lost not only its personnel but its identity, becoming the present-day Cruzeiro do Sul.
In Central America the threat was from competitors in the United States, where such airlines of substance as TWA and American Export Airlines were seeking ways of challenging Pan American’s established position, mainly by injecting capital into the extensive organisation of TACA,the Central American group of airlines founded by the New Zealander, Lowell Yerex. Between July, 1943 and October, 1945, Pan American acquired substantial shareholdings in the flag airlines of almost every republic bordering on the Caribbean. The majority of these shareholdings are still held today, as a reduced percentage of the total, and the airlines themselves have derived
Harold E. Gray, now President of Pan American, opened the North Atlantic mail route when on June 24, 1939, he flew Boeing 314 Yankee Clipper from Botwood, Newfoundland to Foynes, Irish Free State.
great benefit from the American company’s technical support.
In terms of flying equipment, Pan Am was in the van of progress. It had been one of the co-sponsors in 1936 of the original DC-4 four-engined land plane, a project which resulted only in the building of a prototype; and in November, 1939, three Lockheed L-44 Excalibur 30-passenger, 260 mph, 1,600-mile range aircraft had been ordered. Both designs were superseded, respectively, by the new DC-4, ordered by Pan American on April 24, 1940, and by the L.49 Constellation, on June 11 of the same year. At the time of Pearl Harbour, the United States flag airline had on order 15 DC-4s, 40 Constellations (of which 18 were the long-range, trans-Atlantic, version) together with no less than 43 DC-3s.
The Pearl Harbour incident caught Pan American with many of its Clippers far from home. An S-42 was destroyed by the Japanese in Hong Kong Harbour. One of the Boeings was cut off by hostilities at Auckland, and returned to New York the long way round, via Karachi and West Africa. The remaining B.314 fleet was sold to the US Government, to cover war risks, but continued under Pan American control. They were made self-sufficient, carrying spare parts and maintenance crews. Special missions, often on new routes without adequate communications or weather reporting, included supply runs to Montgomery’s forces in Egypt, to Stilwell’s troops in China, and back from Africa and Brazil with scarce rubber and metals.
Since the War, Pan American has reaped a rich reward from its pioneering vigour and thoroughness of method, both in route development and the introduction of better equipment. Compared with the adventurous days of the 1920s and 1930s, the post-war Pan Am calendar of events seems less spectacular, more predictable. But the efforts to maintain leadership have required as much inspiration and judgement as before.
The post-war US administration took a mixed view of Pan American’s “ grandfather rights ” and although some route extensions were authorised, notably to complete a round-the-world network, inroads were made into the company’s basic route structure, to
Pan Am was one of the co-sponsors, in ► 1936, of the original Douglas DC-4 which, in its modified production form, played a prominent part in the company’s early postwar development.