The Story
of a Great Airline
ON October 28, 1967, Pan American World Airways Inc., celebrates its fortieth anniversary. On this day, in 1927, scheduled air mail services started from Key West to Havana, with a Fokker F-7, piloted by Hugh Wells. Whilst this historic flight may be said to begin Chapter One of the Pan American story, there was, however, an essential preface, a tale of industrial manœuvre which made possible the creation of the most influential airline in the World today.
During 1926 three separate groups of airline promoters were trying to organise services to Cuba, the nearest island stepping-stone towards the South American mainland. First, there was Juan Trippe’s New York Airways, which had originally bid unsuccessfully for the New York-Boston mail route. Together with banker associates, John Hambleton and C. Y. Whitney, he sought more adventurous fields to the south, making a trial flight to Havana with Anthony Fokker.
The second group, Florida Airways, organised by exwar aces Reed Chambers and Eddie Rickenbacker, had
operated for nine months between Atlanta and Miami. Although it lost money and suspended operations, its backers, an impressive body of financiers, including Percy A. Rockefeller and Richard Hoyt, nevertheless retained interest in promoting airline activity towards Latin America.
Thirdly, a Captain J. K. Montgomery had been converted to the same ambition by Dr. von Bauer, head of SCADTA, the Colombian airline which had been operating since 1921. Von Bauer’s plans to expand to the USA were frustrated, but Montgomery continued to promote the idea, and gained support from his father-in-law, Lewis E. Pierson, and Richard Bevier. This group formed Pan American Airways on March 14, 1927.
Meanwhile, Trippe’s group formed the Aviation Corporation of America on June 2. Trippe, Hambleton and Whitney each put up $25,000, and persuaded eight friends, including Grover Loening, W. Averell Harriman, William A. Rockefeller, and Sherman Fairchild, to subscribe additional capital. They also engaged André


Of Pan American s current fleet of some ► 130 turbojet airliners, more than 90 are Boeing 707s and variants (including nine 720s). Boeing have also supplied 24 of their 727 tri-jets to the airline which has in addition ordered 25 Boeing 747s and has delivery positions reserved for 15 of the same manufacturer’s supersonic airliner.


^ -sms»

by
RON DAVIES