1
The last and greatest of the Clipper flying- ► boats was the Boeing 314, able to carry 30 passengers in comfort. They operated regular trans-Atlantic schedules from Bot-wood, Newfoundland, seen here, where Esso’s Canadian affiliate, Imperial Oil Ltd., established a fueling dock to dispense aviation products.
Two splendid period pieces, a passenger coach-trailer, and the ► floating barge-terminal stimulate nostalgic recollections of the early Pan Am flying-boat operations from their Dinner Key base at Miami.
Around 1932, this handsome new base, with passenger “piers”, replaced the floating terminal at Dinner Key. The aircraft are ▼ Sikorsky S-40s, the first Pan Am Clipper flying-boats.
Positive progress was now made on the North Atlantic. The long discussions on reciprocal operating rights with the United Kingdom finally ended with an agreement on February 22, 1937, and—after the normal series of survey flights—regular passenger services opened from New York to Bermuda on June 18, 1937. The fare was $100 single, which at today’s real money values, would suffice for a New York-London round trip ticket.
Typically, Pan American was already looking beyond the Martin M-130—fine ship though it was—before it had carried fare-paying passengers. On July 21, 1936, six Boeing 314 flying-boats were ordered, at a cost of $4 millions, an unparalleled amount in those days. Their performance in payload and range, adequate to carry 30 passengers across the Atlantic, was years ahead of any other design, American or European. In addition, on March 15, 1937, three Boeing 307, four-engined, pressurised 1.1 j land planes were ordered specifically for mail and express trans-Atlantic services.
wm*-
The development of the incomparable Boeing 314s, together with the consummation of firm bilateral agreements, both with Governments and airlines, put Pan American in an impregnable position competitively. British flying-boats lacked the loadcarrying ability at the required ranges; the French were late off the mark; the Germans had demonstrated re-
markable ingenuity with depot ships, catapult launching, and the ill-fated Hindenburg airship, but service by their fine Focke-Wulf Condor land-
plane, ready in 1938, was delayed through lack of a bilateral agreement.
Only one Pan American survey flight was needed, such was the superb performance of the Boeing 314, and on May 20, 1939, Captain A. E. Laporte in command, the Yankee Clipper flew the first trans-Atlantic mail service, on the southern route, New York-Azores-Lisbon-Marseilles. The same aircraft, commanded by Captain H. E. Gray (now President of Pan American) opened the northern mail route, via Shediac (New Brunswick), Botwood (Newfoundland) and Foynes (Irish Free State) on June 24. Passenger services began on the southern and northern routes on June 28 and
July 8 respectively.
The outbreak of World War II severely curtailed Pan American’s activities on the North Atlantic but further expansion was possible elsewhere. On July 12, 1940, a Boeing 314 opened the South Pacific service to New Zealand (S-42 flights begun in