/Four ills Easier than Ew fo Earn FREE FARE f
PAAL^OMtEcU/ SERVICE
,0 EUROPE
BRINGS LOWEST TOURIST FARES IN HISTORY
to FLYING CLIPPER TRAVEL GROUPS
Pan Americas World Alrways
More people want to go to Europe than any other place in the world. Now, through Pan American's daily RAINBOW Clipper Tourist Service, transatlantic travel is brought to thousands whose purse strings have tied them to their home towns.
Pan American led the move to reduce air fares to Europe. As a result, you can get to Europe and back, via PAA’s Rainbow Service at the lowest fare ever on a scheduled airline. The round-trip Rainbow fare from New York to London, for example, is now as low as $417 — a saving of $193 over the lowest regular round-trip fare. Fares to other destinations are equally attractive.
Organize a Rainbow Tour — and Get FREE FARE!
This new Rainbow Service is especially interesting to those organizing conducted Flying Clipper Travel Groups. These new low fares make it even easier to interest people in touring Europe as a group — and thus gain for yourself FREE TRANSPORTATION going and returning. Only difference between Rainbow Service Flying Clipper Travel Groups and others is that a group of 20 for the round trip is required in order to earn full fare free, 15 to 19 for half-fare free.
Rainbow Service Planes are PAA’s Newest
When you head a group to travel on the Rainbow, you can be sure of an enjoyable holiday. The giant Super-6 Clippers used for this service are the very latest in Douglas-built airliners, especially designed for world flight, with extra speed, extra distance range. The service is operated by the same strict standards as all other Clipper services.
Rainbow Clipper seats are soft and restful—cabins are air-conditioned. Stewardesses keep passengers comfortable. Meals are served at very low cost. Rainbow Service makes transatlantic travel not only cheap, but pleasant.
Let us give you full details on organizing your own conducted Clipper tour so that you may have the trip of your life, free of transportation cost.
See Low Rainbow Fares on Back Page