country long has been Brazil’s best customer and market for U. S. goods in Latin America.
The market for most of Brazil’s 15 m pected to remain largely domestic. T’ fields of foodstuffs, textiles, dpt1 ceuticals, construction indust*-' arts, raw-material proces rubber goods, tobacco, vehicles. Under construct ects for the building or it When finished, these wou. scarcely-adequate electric po stalled electric power capacity . of Sao Paulo.

„sent .it of in--active State
B,
►ASIC INDUSTRIES P LAN N• A comprehensive plan for establishing basic industries near central sources of raw materials has been mapped out. The rirh northeastern areas would, for example, be aided by erecting a half million kw. power dam on the San Francisco River between the States of Bahia and Alagoas.
Brazil has not hesitated to gain from her neighbors knowledge that can be applied to local projects. A technical mission of prominent educators and engineers, recently in the U. S. to study actual working conditions in our industrial plants, is but one of several that have lately visited the U. S.
The greatest mining boom in Brazil since gold was discovered there in the 18th Century has been under way. Production has multiplied 800% in the last 10 years.
The world’s greatest reserves of iron ore (estimated at 15,000,000,000 of the world’s 72,000,000,000 tons of deposits) are thought to lie beneath Brazil’s soil. To make use of these resources a giant steel mill at Volta Redonda has been erected, expected to supply 60% of domestic needs. These iron ore reserves are valued at billions of cruzeiros to future Brazilians.
Industrial ("black”) diamonds, doubly important in wartime, are mined in the same general area as are quartz crystals. The two are so vital that shipments of both have been rushed by plane to the U. S. More than $50,000,000 worth of gold annually is taken from mines and rivers.
M ANY MINERALS PRODUCED • Theprincipal source
of much-needed aluminum, bauxite, is extracted from the dry northern deserts. Manganese (which gives steel its hardness), mica, lead, molybdenum, zinc, mercury, beryllium, tungsten, and chromium are other minerals produced in varying amounts.
In the State of Minas Gerais, sometimes called "one of the greatest mineral areas in the world,” and in the neighboring State of Espirito Santo a full-scale development program (health, housing, food, transportation, hydroelectric power, and expansion and modernization of mining operations) is going on, much of it with U. S. assistance.
More than a million square miles of unbroken forests comprise half the great, sparsely-settled Amazon Basin. Here and elsewhere in Brazil are a thousand varieties of trees. Every crop known to man can be produced in Brazil.
Magnesium ore pours from bins into railroad flat-cars.
Airvieiv of the fast-growing industrial metropolis of Sao Paulo.
The need for raw rubber has again brought into the headlines the name of Manaos, a thousand miles up the mighty Amazon from the nearest important city, but itself a cultured
o*-«'’ ■>	Q	W O** ^ ^
The story of the difficulties and dangers under which natural rubber is collected and shipped from the wild headwaters of the Amazon, down that mighty river to waiting factories in the U. S., has not yet been told. Pan American World Airways has flown supplies to Manaos and on occasion flown out raw rubber.
Much of a large credit advanced by the U. S. Government to aid Brazil in mobilizing her economic resources is to be earmarked for rubber collection and mining development.
Wo I
•RLD’S LEADING COFFEE PRODUCER .
Most of the world’s coffee comes from Brazil, $100,000,000 worth of it in 1941. From extensive fazendas coffee is sent to ocean ports, of which Santos is the greatest and best-known, there to be loaded aboard freighters. There are about three billion cultivated coffee trees in the nation and coffee is the principal normal export of Brazil (followed by cotton, canned meat, hides and skins, cocoa, carnauba wax, castor beans, precious and semi-precious stones, fruits and nuts, and timber).
Of the lesser-known resources of the nation, carnauba wax is one of the more important. From Brazil’s carnauba palm trees comes the world’s entire supply of this wax, needed in gunpowder, electric insulation, polishes, phonograph records, and milady’s lipstick.
Brazil’s principal import needs in peacetime have been machinery and tools, iron and steel manufactures, automobiles, wheat, coal, coke, chemical and pharmaceutical products, vehicles and accessories (other than automobiles), gasoline, iron and steel, raw materials for manufacturing, and combustibles.
A
IR TRANSPORT ® In a land of vast distances like Brazil, air transport proves its tremendous value. In addition to the international passenger, mail, and express services of Pan American World Airways, Brazil is served by Panair do Brasil, world’s longest domestic airline, and Pan American-Grace Airways—both associates of Pan American World Airways.
Enormous/v-valuable tantalite
General view of Volta Redonda mill, heart of an expand ng steel industry.
Pan American Clipper lands at Manaos with supplies and technicians for rubber plantations.
The Ministry of Labor, Industry, and Commerce in Rio de Janeiro.