'Bermuda
ŒXICJ
St.Thomas VI SbAntigua B.W.I.
\ Point aPitre.Guad \ Ft de Fran ce M't'qi
ATL AK
VENE.
Georgetown
f Qui to ■ m ECUADOR
Calta : TucuïïU
Key West
•Bimini.
1 .Havana Matan za |
*Guinchos Cay
■unagua
Cayo Cruz
t JÉ ;ñ *LobosCay
Channel
Rock
i binai
FlamingoCay Sea! Cay Ragged Is.
Lorii
¡§¡ *V I «
'Cay St. Domingo
’uerfjo
uantána
ING CLIPPER ROUTES BETWEEN THE AM

■ — J \	'	\
■ i y\ XN
»  	■r "1 i--yV*1- — T"	— 


Airway over the West Indies
SECOND most important port of entry for the United States, due almost entirely to mounting Pan American aerial traffic which takes from and brings to this continent, through this port, more people than are registered through any other port except New York, Miami (population 200,000) is the eastern junction of United States’ domestic airlines and the international Pan American Airways System. Terminal for Eastern Airlines' routes from New York (overnight) and the Atlantic seaboard; Chicago (overnight) and the middle west. Headquarters for Pan American’s Eastern Division. All Clipper Ships operating over the Caribbean and the West Indies between North and South America clear through this gateway. The Pan American International Marine Airport here is the largest commercial seaplane base in the world and has been studied as a model by representatives of 41 countries. From this port, which attracts 500,000 visitors annually, Clipper Routes spread Eastward: to Nassau (2 hrs.). Southeastward: to Haiti (5 hrs.); Dominican Republic (7 Yi hrs.); Puerto Rico (10 hrs.); Port of Spain (lp2 days); Rio de Janeiro (5 days); Asuncion (5J^ days); Buenos Aires (6 days). Westward: to Merida (5 hrs.); Mexico City (1J^ days); Los Angeles (3 days). Southward: to Havana (2 hrs.); Jamaica (5 hrs.); Colombia (9 hrs.); Venezuela (10 hrs.); Panama Canal Zone (10 hrs.); thence, via Pan American-Grace Airways to Ecuador (2 days); Peru (3 days); Chile and Bolivia (4 days); Argentina (5 days).
FLORIDA KEYS—From Spanish word cayos, meaning little islands. Stretch 150 miles to Key West, 200 miles into the Atlantic. Named for notorious pirate, Black Caesar, dividing keys to the west, is Caesar's Creek. Old Spanish Lighthouse on Biscayne Key marks historic pirate hideout. Fowey Rock Light—built in 1872. Dark green color, mostly mangrove trees. Lighter greens, avocado orchards. GULF STREAM.—Deep purple color clearly marks boundaries of this famous ’’river in the ocean," named by Benjamin Franklin. Its current of 3 to 6 knots carries warming climate from the Gulf of Mexico across the Atlantic to Iceland and British Isles. Fishing grounds for barracuda, mackerel, dolphin, whip-ray, whales. BAHAMA BANKS—Outcroppings of a great 200 mile underwater coral shelf. Range of water's colors reflects submarine coral formations. Atlantic Ocean here is often less than 30 feet deep. Unusual transparency reveals giant sea-turtles and other sea denizens. These keys are Bahama ’’sponge” farms. Mostly uninhabited, they are primeval haunts of wild duck, pelican, flamingoes and other tropical sea-birds. COLUMBUS LANDFALL—Just east of Andros Island, largest of the Bahamas, lies tiny San Salvador (Watling's Island), first of New World sighted by Columbus when he landed Sunday morning, October 12, 1492. San Salvador is the starting point for his trail of discovery which the Clipper crosses more than twenty times in traversing the West Indies. Tropic of Cancer lies over southern tip of Andros Island separating north temperate zone from the tropics. This area was indicated on ancient charts as “pirate flats.’’
CUBA—Dark blue water marks old Bahama Channel through which Columbus sailed discovering Cuba October 28, 1492. Conquered by Diego Velasquez, 1511, Island was the base of expeditions of discovery of Florida and the conquest of Mexico. A Spanish colony until 1899, freed after the Spanish-American War, became a Republic in 1902. This was one of Spain's first—and last—possessions in the great New World empire founded by the Conquistadores. Landmarks of earliest history, of centuries of conquest, still visible through this "tropic garden" of rich vegetation. Largest of the West Indies Islands, is approximately 700 miles long and varies from a few miles to 65 miles wide. Has a population of approximately 5,000,000. Capital is Havana. Famed as a tourist land Cuba, called the world’s “sugar bowl," is rich in agriculture, mining, forestry. Served by Cuban National Airlines, which completely traverse island. Havana, the capital (population 200,000) has been called the “Paris of the Caribbean" and is one of the most popular foreign-travel centers for American tourists. Its famous Prado, the great promenade, its Malecón sea wall, and the narrow, winding by-ways and old colonial buildings are known around the world, as are its Jai-Alai fronton, Oriental Park race course, its Playa beach and smart clubs, its café and public gardens. First international air route linked Havana and Key West (1927). Now Miami-Havana airway (2 hours) is one of world’s most travelled air lanes and serves as base line for the central and western Transcaribbean routes to South America (via Cienfuegos and Jamaica) and the Gulf "loop” to Merida, Mexico City and Los Angeles. On West Indies route first landfall southbound, usually on Cayo Cruz. Dark green colors inland are mahogany forests; brown spots indicate hills of chrome ore; green-yellow patches are fields of sugar cane; large red roof buildings are sugar centrales (grinding mills). Those majestic, tall straight trees are native Royal Palms. Along coast are coconut trees.
ANTILLA—On Nipe Bay. fMiami 410 miles. Havana 517 miles. Port au Prince 280 miles. Trinidad 1431 miles.J Shipping port for sugar and molasses. Connecting airport for Cuban National Airlines to Santiago de Cuba, (30 mins.); to Guantanamo (50 mins.); to Baracoa (65 mins.); to Havana (3 Yi hrs.). Nearby Santiago, picturesque old Spanish city, second largest in Cuba, is site of San Juan Hill, stormed by Roosevelt’s Rough Riders in Spanish-American War, and the harbor where Lt. Hobson sank his battleship to bottle up the Spanish fleet. Home of Bacardi rum and daiquiri cocktails. From Santiago, Pan American local West Indies service operates to Jamaica (1 hrs.), connecting there with main trunk air routes. South: to Panama. West: to Havana, Mexico, Los Angeles. Northwest: to Miami. BARACOA—One of world's busiest banana ports. First white settlement in Cuba and Island's first capital. Founded 1512. To westward lies United States Naval Base at Guantánamo. Green fields are banana plantations from bay to Baracoa. Dark green areas near coast are mahogany forests, those inland are coffee trees. WINDWARD PASSAGE—Cape Maisi, easternmost tip of Cuba, gradually rising out of the sea, shows five former highwater lines on cliffs. This 50 mile channel is 9,000 feet deep just off shore. For centuries has been main marine highway between ihhp.an Sea and Atlantic. Orean CbartM l~w Cnlnmhng nn his fir^r vnvpgp 1 4Q2
ON THIS geographically correct map you may orient yourself — and your flight course — with true reference to that section of the earth over which you are moving. The route-chart below is arranged in an arbitrary direction in order that you may follow your course with greater ease. The scale in the border of the route-chart, however, accurately measures true course distance, each division being equivalent to 87 nautical (100.05 statute) miles. In the exacting navigation of the Clipper Ships the
nautical mile is used, since it is true measure of distance, being 1 /60th degree of latitude, or one minute of the earth’s arc. This “sea mile” is one-sixth longer than the statute “land mile,” which has no relation to true-earth measurement. Your speed will vary according to the altitude flown, and to the winds over the course. Your steward will gladly secure from the Captain a record of wind, air speed and altitude if you wish to plot your flight progress and estimate arrival times by your own “nativation.”
Jucaro
St. Petersburg
Tampa

