OVER THE STEPPING STONES to JthsL NEW WORLD
FOR sheer loveliness, for romantic history, for sharply contrasting shades of life and color and customs, no travel route in the world can match these West Indies which you are about to visit. In the eighteen hundred miles that stretch from the tip of Florida to the headlands of the great South American continent—lying just off the southernmost isle of Trinidad—these nearly one thousand tropical isles and cayos separate the broad Atlantic Ocean from the Caribbean Sea. They form the ‘‘stepping stones” between the two great American continents. Geologically, they are the projecting tips of a tremendous submarine mountain range that once formed a mighty land bridge between North and South America. Four of the islands which have risen highest from the ocean depths—and are still rising—are known as the Greater Antilles: Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico. Between them and the southern continent are the Lesser Antilles—the ancient Carib-bees—individual mountain peaks, many of which are still volcanically active.
It was on one of these little islands, just east of the Clippers’ course, that Columbus first set foot—and where the history of the New World began. Believing he had found a new route to the East, he called the islands the West Indies. Heartbroken when the solid land-mass of Central America prevented him from reaching that “larger land” he knew was only beyond the horizon, he died before he could know he had given the world an even greater discovery. The people of his fifteenth century called these islands the Antilles because they believed he had found An-tilia, that mythical continent which, in popular fancy, existed “just beyond the sunset."
In his search for a new gateway to the East Columbus discovered most of the West Indies Islands and even today these bear the names he gave them. It was in the wake of his tiny caravels that four centuries of turbulent history rolled across these island outposts on march to the rich continents beyond. From the shelter of their palm-fringed harbors the first heavily laden galleons ploughed homeward to Seville, there to dazzle an unbelieving Old World with the fabulous treasures of the New, while conquistadores pushed even farther on to wrest from startled Inca and Aztec even richer empires, vaster than a dozen Indies. Here you will find the trails of Cortez, conqueror of Mexico ... of Pizarro, the lowly swineherd, who won from the Incas their ageless land ... of Balboa, discoverer of the Pacific ... of Velasquez, who conquered Cuba ... of Alvarado, who won Guatemala . .K. of Ponce De Leon, who sought the Fountain of Youth, and discovered Florida.
After the conquests came commerce, an equally bitter struggle, when British and French and Spanish merchantmen raced tall masted Yankee Clippers for the spreading markets, and bustling Dutch sailing masters tacked through the island channels—with brooms lashed to their topmasts—to sweep all competition from the seas. And from these island coves swarmed myriad bands of swashbuckling buccaneers—Drake and Black Beard, Morgan and Blue Beard, Cap’n Kidd—-and their cutlassed-crews—the skull and crossbones flying brazenly from their mastheads—to wrest, in turn, from men o’war and merchantmen alike the riches they had hard won from the lands of the lowly Indian.
Yet, although centuries have passed over them, the handmarks of this history stand so sharp and clear that you may still read the thrilling chapters right from the brilliant pages upon which they first were carved. Here are the remnants of the first flagship of Columbus . . . the cathedral he built and in which rest his mortal remains ... in the city he founded, old before America was even dreamed of.
. . . Here are the winding streets with their over-hanging Spanish balconies that echoed the martial foot-steps of conquistador es and the soft sung harmonies of gay Spanish dons and donnas. ... At harbor entrances still stand the ancient battlements that sought to guard these pioneer outposts of the New World. . . . Here a race of millions vanished within a single century ... a slave once rose to be an emperor ... a United States marine was made a king. Into renown have stepped a hundred figures from the pages of this most romantic age in America’s thrilling history.
It is remarkable that the years have made so little change in these lands of the Western Indies. Columbus described them as a country which “excels all others so far as the day surpasses the night in splendour.” Adorned with luxurious tropic foliage, splashed with the flame of myriad tropic flowers—each was set in frames of crystal clear water of every conceivable hue. And so they are today. The march of civilization, you will find, has done little to detract from their natural loveliness.Today three of them are republics— Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic. Over picturesque Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands fly the Stars and Stripes. Over groups of the Caribbees are the flags of France. Great Britain and Holland—all of the early powers save the nation which first discovered them. Alike in temperate climate and tropic richness, you will find them a medley of interesting customs, musical languages, romantic legends. Yet each island has its own individual character. Together, they present a range of contrasting sights and sounds and colors unmatched on the face of the globe . . .
HPHIS route-chart was designed to help you “navigate” your own course of discovery through these “Lands of Antilia.” It can, of course, only show the more outstanding geographical features—the general contour of the islands, their principal harbors, main rivers, mountains, valleys—and their geographical relationships. Your Steward will gladly identify other points of interest which, because of space limitations, could not be indicated on the charts, or described in the notes. He is a veteran traveler through these islands. He knows the lands and their peoples, speaks their languages. You will find him an excellent guide both aloft and ashore. His greatest interest is your pleasure. He will appreciate an opportunity to serve.
All subject matter copyright, 1938, by Pan American Airways System.