and 1 of wine or 2 of either if in use; Vi pint perfume; small quantity of food. You may take excesses and pay duty, of course.
Your American passport is all you’ll need for identification purposes. If you plan to hire a car to drive yourself, bring your driver’s license. A visitor’s license may be obtained for 70 cents, from the Automobile Association or the Royal Automobile Club, however, should you forget to bring your own.
DRUG STORES . . . English drug stores, called chemists’ shops, can supply you with everything you need in the way of medicine and toilet goods. They don’t usually have soda fountains, though. Selfridge’s department store also has everything in this category.
ELECTRIC CURRENT .. . Voltage is generally 200-250 a.c., so you’ll need a transformer for an electric razor. Converter plugs of the round-prong type are also needed.
FAUNA ... England is the home of many species of birds. Especially famous is the nightingale, the homely little bird with a glorious song. The forests contain deer and many varieties of small game and fowl.
FLORA . . . Mild climate and lots of rain make English gardens and countryside look like something out of a seed catalogue. The ardent English gardeners are well rewarded by beautiful colors and lush greenery.
FOOD . . . Despite the generally unspectacular reputation of British cooking, there are some world-famous restaurants in Britain that have superb food. Roast beef and Yorkshire pudding are typical British dishes. Tea is a universal meal in England. It can mean anything from bread and butter to a spread of cooked dishes, followed by cakes. Don’t miss having hot scones.
GAMBLING . . . Most of the gambling in England is betting on the horses or dogs. There is some form of racing every day and every night except Sundays. In England bets are handled by legalized bookmakers
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Most hotels have good cleaning and laundry services available.
LIQUOR .. . Beer and whisky are the Englishman’s favorite drinks. Gin is a popular drink also as gin and tonic, gin and bitters, gin and It (short for Italian vermouth) or gin and lime. If you order whisky you’ll get Scotch. You will be able to get Irish whiskey. Rye can be obtained, but Bourbon is rare. There is an unlimited number of malt beverages to be had. As compared with the American three— ale, beer and dark beer—the British assortment includes lager, bitter beer, mild ale, old ale and stout, to name but a few. They are served at room temperature. The various beers are often served in ’alf and ’alf mixtures—half and half of whatever you wish.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Your hotel will direct you to the nearest private physician. If you become ill or meet with an accident in Britain, you may obtain medical care, free of charge if necessary, under the National Health Scheme.
MOTION PICTURES .. . Known here as “the pictures” or the