Northern Ireland forms a constitutional monarchy with executive power held by the cabinet headed by the Prime Minister, who must be supported by a majority of the House of Commons. Parliament consists of two Chambers: the House of Commons, whose members are elected directly by the people, and the House of Lords, whose members sit for life, either by hereditary right, by appointment by the Queen, or by virtue of office.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan Am’s many Clipper services of First Class “President,” Tourist “Rainbow,” or Economy Class Thrift fares. Approximate elapsed times to London are 10% hours from New York, 15]/3 from Chicago via Detroit, 19 via Polar route from U.S. west coast. By ship, about 5 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . London hotels are world famous for their friendly service and pleasant atmosphere. Rates vary considerably with the average around $5.00 a night, including breakfast. Here are some of the best hotels in the various approximate price brackets. Prices quoted are for single rooms with bath. Claridge’s, still the swankiest hostelry in town, is $18 and up. The rooms are large and gracious. You’ll be treated royally. The Savoy, of course, is known the world over, as is the Ritz. The fashionable Berkeley is equally fine. Rooms are $13 per night. The Dorchester is very good. Rates here begin at $15.00. Grosvenor House is very popular and costs about $12 per night. Brown’s Hotel hasn’t changed in 100 years, chintz chairs, atmosphere, and quite moderate at $8.50. The Westbury in Mayfair is also very popular. The Strand Palace, the Regent Palace and the Cumberland are pleasant and inexpensive. Rates beginning at $4.50 to $6.50. Other good hotels include the Hyde Park Hotel beginning at $8.40, the May Fair Hotel beginning at $10, and the Park Lane Hotel beginning at $6.50.
ARTS . . . London offers a wealth of museum and gallery-visiting experiences. There is the British Museum with its vast collection of the art of all ages, including some famous must-be-seens: Elgin Marbles from Greece, manuscripts of the Magna Carta, some of Shakespeare’s First Folio, and important anthropological exhibits. The National Gallery in Trafalgar Square is a must for all art lovers. It has one of the world’s most brilliant collections of French, Italian, Spanish, Flemish and English painting. The Tate Gallery, Millbank, offers an excellent collection of modern art from Turner on. The National Portrait Gallery in St. Martin’s Place has portraits of Britain’s great by artists of their times.
Besides the large galleries and museums, London also has a number of charming, intimate museums that were the houses of great men of letters and public life in England’s colorful history. Visiting Carlyle House in Chelsea, Keats’s House in Keats Grove, or Dickens’ home in Doughty Street is like going back in time.
Galleries and museums in London are open usually from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. daily and from 2:00 to 6:30 p.m on Sundays. Admission is free most places.
BALLET . . . Though comparatively young in the dance world, London’s Sadler’s Wells Ballet Company (now called the Royal