From the Tower of St. Mary’s Church you have a fine view of the town. The gardens are particularly lovely. Plan to stay at least two days in Oxford. There are some quite good inns. Confirm reservations in advance.
Stratford-on-Avon has been wonderfully preserved as a shrine to England’s greatest poet. You may see the house where Shakespeare was born and Anne Hathaway’s quaint little cottage. The town is typically Tudor England. The Shakespeare Memorial Theater has performances of the Bard’s great works from April through November. Stay at the Welcombe Hotel or the Falcon Inn. The food is good at both places. There are other good restaurants in Stratford. Make reservations in advance, especially during the theater season. Shakespeare’s grave is in the Church of the Holy Trinity.
Warwick Castle is near by. It is an interesting mixture of many styles of architecture, has a lavish interior.
Tewkesbury Abbey is the great church of the region. Tewkesbury is the scene of a major battle of the Wars of the Roses and the Abbey is a fine example of Norman architecture.
The Midlands and the Lake District. . . Nottingham is the most historic town in this region. See Nottingham Castle. See the quaint old “Trip to Jerusalem” Inn, near the dungeons of the Castle. It was a meeting place for Richard Coeur de Lion’s crusaders. Nine miles from Nottingham is Newstead Abbey, the home of Lord Byron. It has been beautifully preserved by the town of Nottingham. The gardens and grounds are gorgeous.
Haddon Hall is a medieval house of great beauty. It is the property of the Duke of Rutland and is associated with the romantic Dorothy Vernon, who eloped with Sir John Manners in the sixteenth century. Chatsworth, the stately home of the Duke of Devonshire, is of interest not only for its fine collections of pictures but also as having been for short periods the house of detention of the unhappy Mary Queen of Scots. Both are well worth seeing.
The Lake District is a hiker’s paradise. Often called “Little Switzerland,” it is beautiful, full of charming little lakes, rolling hills and rugged open country. It was also the haven of great English poets, notably Wordsworth. Ambleside, Windermere (the largest lake is here), Grasmere and Keswick are all quaint little towns with good inns and restaurants. Any one of them would make a good base for seeing the Lake District.
R YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged form, only one of 89 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.