in England can get as cold as October weather. Eighty degrees is considered an unusually warm day in London. Don’t crowd your luggage with light cotton or tropical worsted clothes, unless you are going to warmer climates. A simple wool suit and lightweight wool dresses will fill a woman’s daytime needs in London. Black cocktail dresses or dressy suits are best after five. The English wear evening clothes much more than we do, so if you plan to go at all gala bring along your formal clothes. A lightweight topcoat and a warm evening wrap are musts. So are comfortable shoes for sightseeing and hiking. Casual sportswear, but not slacks, are correct in the country.
Lightweight flannel and worsted suits are fine for men in London. Odd rweed jackets worn with gray flannel slacks are good in the country. A raincoat is definitely a must all year round in England for both men and women. These suggestions are primarily for a summer wardrobe in England. If you are going in the winter, plan to wear heavier indoor and lighter outdoor clothes than you would in the United States.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
London . . . What you see in London is largely up to you. You can do the museums and art galleries, you can wander around the various neighborhoods which make up the largest city in the world, you can go down to the “City,” you can poke around Soho and Chelsea. But here are a few musts on anyone’s list. Westminster Abbey, of course. This old English building is England itself. Here is where the rulers of Great Britain have been crowned for centuries. Here is where royalty is wed and many of the great of England are buried in the Abbey. The history of the English people can be read in these graves.
You can’t miss Big Ben at Westminster or Eros on his Piccadilly stand. The British Museum is a must even if you aren’t a museum-goer. The Houses of Parliament are near the Abbey. Built in 1840, they are pseudo-Gothic with Victorian overtones. History is made here and you may be in on its making by obtaining passes to the debates in the House of Commons (by application to the Admission order office). There are guided tours available on Saturdays only, 10 a.m.—4 p.m., for which it is not necessary to make advance booking arrangements.
Go to the Tower of London, scene of some of the darkest chapters in English history. It is now a museum and holds the Crown lewels and other treasures. Within its walls is the beautiful little chapel of St. lohn, one of the perfect examples of Norman architecture. Take a day to see this vast building which has stood since the time of William the Conqueror. And don’t miss St. Paul’s Cathedral, which was built by Christopher Wren. The graceful Renaissance dome has been a landmark for more than two centuries.
Take a bus to the “City,” the financial heart of England. Here you will find “The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street” (Bank of England), Lloyd’s, the Temple, Lincoln’s Inn and Gray’s Inn. This is where you’ll find the Cheshire Cheese in Fleet Street.