Excellent food is found in the Soho section of town, London’s Greenwich Village. Here, excellent French, Italian, Chinese, Greek, Hungarian and Jewish cookery can be found. Try An Jardin des Gourmets, and the White Tower.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Harrod’s, Dickins and Jones, Robinson and Cleaver’s, Fortnum and Mason’s and Simpson’s are among London’s top department stores. Marvelous tailors along Savile Row. Wonderful shops along Regent and Bond Streets. British designers include Digby Morton, Hartnell, Worth, and Charles Creed. Liberty’s for silk prints. Shops are closed Saturday afternoons.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Horse racing goes on all year in England. The flat racing season lasts from March to December when the steeplechasing and hurdle racing begin. The first week in June is Derby Week. People come from miles around to see this great world-famous race, and gypsies camp on Epsom Downs, giving the whole event a carnival air. It is one of the most interesting events in the world and one of the gayest.
A visit to Lord’s Cricket Ground in London is interesting. Rugby is mainly a university sport, not so popular as .soccer. The biggest soccer event in England is the Cup Final, played at Wembley in April or early May. Other major sports events in England are the world-championship tennis matches at Wimbledon in London during June and July, the British Amateur and British Open Golf tournaments in May and July, respectively, and the Oxford-Cambridge boat race on the Thames in March or early April.
SPORTS . . . There is a great variety of interests for the sportsman in England. There are some of the world’s best golf links and courses. Near London is the famous Sunningdale course. Westward Ho! in Devon, Hoylake near Liverpool and the courses at Sandwich in Kent, to mention a few, are all excellent.
You’ll find fine tennis all over England. The grass courts are practically all good. An English week-end visit is almost sure to include some good tennis, as the sport is nationally popular. There is every kind of river and stream in England to make it a fisherman’s paradise. The wonderful streams such as the Itchen, Frome and Axe have made English trout fishing famous. The dry-fishing here ranks with the best in the world. The moor country in western England offers the wet-fly fisherman excellent casting for salmon and trout.
There’s good hunting in England for deer, hare and many kinds of game, including pheasant, partridge, wild geese and duck. Game licenses cost $8.50 a season for as many guns as you wish and a hunting permit, or $5.60 and $2.80 for shorter periods.
England is wonderful for the hiker and bicycling enthusiast. There is a wide variety of landscape and terrain that can be covered in a short time. The Youth Hostel movement is very popular in England. There are more than 300 hostels in the British Isles, offering low-cost accommodations for hikers and cyclists.
THEATERS. .. First of all, try to see the famous Old Vic Company at the reconditioned Old Vic on the South Bank. It has a great