cinema, motion picture theaters usually open at noon. There are a great many of them in London showing the best of American films and other foreign films as well as all kinds of British movies.
MUSIC . . . Classic opera at Covent Garden. The English were the first to try operas sung in English on a large scale. The reception has been most enthusiastic. Modern opera, especially that of Benjamin Britten, is an integral part of the Covent Garden repertoire. The performances of the London Philharmonic conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham are among the highlights of the symphony season. There are also many chamber-music groups and visiting artists from the Continent. There are concerts at the Royal Festival Hall and Royal Albert Hall, opera and ballet at Sadler’s Wells Theater.
NIGHT CLUBS . . . The British phenomenon, the pub, can mean a wide variety of establishments from the ultra-swank West End bars, whose snack bars serve some of the best food in London, to the smoky little neighborhood pubs, with their inevitable game of darts, that are the working-class Englishman’s club.
The gay night life of London centers in such places as the New Churchills Club in Bond Street. The younger set likes to relax here. Admission is $2.80 per person and breakfast is on the house at 4 A.M. Dinner and wine costs approximately $10.00 per person and whisky is approximately $12.00 a bottle. The “400 Club” is one of the plushiest night spots in town. Also very gala and less expensive is the Embassy. There are floor shows and dancing at all these places. Other clubs include the River Club on the Embankment, the Empress Club in Berkeley Street, Siegi’s in Charles Street, Berkeley Square, Les Ambassadeurs and Milroy. Membership, where necessary, can be arranged by a telephone call to the manager. Membership fees are nominal.
The following restaurants also have dance orchestras and entertainment: quite moderate in price are the Astor, Pigalle Restaurant and the Coconut Grove. More expensive but very good is Quaglino’s in Bury Street. London clubs change name quite frequently, so check at your hotel before you set out for an evening.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Good supplies of cameras and equipment, black-and-white still and movie film and color film are now available. Prices are high compared with United States. Film developing services are good with a 48-hour service at most shops.
RELIGION. . . The official Church of England is Protestant Episcopal; its members are often known as Anglicans. There are many other churches in London, including Catholic, Presbyterian and Lutheran, and Jewish synagogues.
RESTAURANTS . . . Some of the best eating in London can be done in the dining rooms of the Dorchester, Berkeley, Grosvenor House, the Savoy and other fine hotels. There is usually music for dancing and the service is distinguished. Leoni’s Quo Vadis, Manetta’s, Coq d’Or, Quaglino’s, Hatchett’s, Hungaria and Cunningham’s Oyster Bar are among London’s good restaurants, and Simpson’s in the Strand is world famous.