tradition of fine acting and offers some of the best theatrical entertainment in the world today. You’ll want to check what’s playing in the famous West End theaters. London offers a great variety of plays and musical comedies throughout the year. Besides new plays, there are always revivals of Shakespeare and the classics. You buy your program, but tickets are cheap, ranging from 42 cents to $2.80 for the best seats in the house. It is best to decide when you first arrive what you are going to see and get seats in advance. You’ll want to spend a few evenings at the music halls, too. The Palladium is the home of vaudeville. See also paragraph above under music. Theater time is 7:30 or 8:00.
TIME. . . Five hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . .The 10 to 15 per cent rule applies at restaurants. At hotels divide 10 to 15 per cent among those giving personal service. In all cases bellboys, doormen and taximen are tipped extra. Tip only for extra service such as delivery of tickets, etc. Tip cab drivers 6d (7 cents) for a fare of 2/6d (35 cents), plus 6d for each 2/6d of fare above 2/6d. Don’t overtip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . London is a spread-out city. It will be worth your while to study the train and subway systems to various parts of it. They are good and not expensive. Taxis are available at all times and they are reasonable. There is excellent train and plane service all over England. Self-drive cars are also available at an average charge of $7.50 per day, allowing 80 miles. Excess mileage is charged at the rate of 2 cents per mile. Chauffeur-driven services are available in most towns for 14 cents per mile upwards, according to the type of car.
WATER . . . The water is safe to drink all over England.
WHAT TO BUY . . . There’s no purchasing tax for visitors on purchases worth £5 ($14) or more if they’re delivered to the ship or plane or shipped home direct.
London is the Paris of men’s clothing. British tailors are the best in the world. Custom-made clothes are much cheaper than in American shops. A beautiful Scotch tweed suit costs about $100, compared with $250 in New York. Wonderfully soft camel’s hair coats can be bought for about the same price. Though some British tailors don’t do as good a job on women’s suits, you may wish to buy a length of tweed or woolen material to have made up at home. Handmade shoes cost around $25 a pair. They wear forever, too. The British make wonderful raincoats, including the famous Burberrys that are equally popular with men and women. Sweaters, socks and scarfs in lovely soft wool and cashmere are also relatively inexpensive. Fine umbrellas, long a British specialty, are for sale at very reasonable prices. Fine old English silver is selling at a fraction of its price in America. Buy Belfast linen and lace-like porcelain from Northern Ireland. Fine China and glass are a good buy, but fragile to ship.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Even in the middle of summer the nights