Ballet) has gained sensational success and reputation both at home and abroad. It may be seen at the Covent Garden Opera House. Many foreign ballet and dance groups may also be seen in London.
BANKS... Guaranty Trust Company, Chase Manhattan Bank, and First National City Bank, all of New York, Bank of America; Royal Bank of Canada. English banks include Westminster Bank, Lloyd’s Bank, Midland Bank, Barclay’s Bank, and National Provincial Bank. American Express, 6 Haymarket; Thos. Cook & Son, Berkeley Street.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . British national holidays include the Bank Holidays on Good Friday, Easter Monday, Whit Monday and the first Monday in August; Christmas Day; Boxing Day on the 26th of December. The Queen’s official birthday, celebrated in midsummer, is an occasion for pageantry but is not a public holiday.
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . You will be allowed to bring a small amount of cigarettes and tobacco into England for your personal use, see customs regulations. If you are going on to other parts of Europe, you may leave the rest of your tobacco and cigarettes with the customs office to be picked up when you leave. English cigarettes, cigars and tobacco are excellent, though expensive. Cigarettes cost 50 cents for 20, cigars range from 50 cents to $2.50 each, and pipe tobacco costs $1.25 for 2 ounces.
CLIMATE . . . Britain enjoys a temperate climate. High summer temperatures are around 70 degrees; in winter the average low is about 35 degrees. The rainiest months are November, January and February. Spring and fall are particularly delightful seasons in Britain.
CLUBS . . . The Rotary International Club, located at Tavistock House, Tavistock Square; Lions International. Many Englishmen belong to private clubs in London. You must be a guest of a member.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS . . . Though Britishers and Americans both speak a language called English there are many differences that can confuse you. Go lightly on American slang and do a little listening to the Englishman’s to avoid embarrassing situations. Tea is a ritual at 4:00 p.m. The savory—fish or cheese served after dessert—is a shock. And remember, cricket is as serious a matter as our baseball.
COMMUNICATIONS .. . London has telephone, telegraph and cable service all over the world. Local communication facilities are good. Airmail from England to the United States is 18 cents per Vt. oz.
CURRENCY ... You may bring an unlimited amount of American currency into England. You are allowed to bring £ 10 sterling in notes in and take only £ 10 out. All this should be declared on entry, so that you can take out again what you do not spend. The pound is worth $2.80.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Duty-free import of 400 cigarettes (600 if in transit), 100 cigars, or 1 lb. tobacco; 1 bottle spirits