one of England’s most popular tourist spots and the inns are booked months in advance.
Knole, outside of Sevenoaks in Kent, 20 miles south of London, is one of the show places of England. The house has endless corridors of gracious rooms and the park and gardens are superb. The whole countryside in Kent, Surrey and Sussex is dotted with quaint villages and the scenery is very beautiful. (There is a motel, Royal Oak, near Lympne, Kent.) For contrast, hire a car and drive along the rolling Downs by the sea.
Winchester, Salisbury, and the New Forest. . . The New Forest is so called because it was man-made. William I created this Royal Hunting Ground. Herds of cattle and very tame “wile ponies” roam through it. Right in the center of this giant woodland is the Parkhill hotel. There’s also a New Forest Motel. Staying here, you have a wonderful base of operations for seeing Winchester and Salisbury. Winchester was the capital of pre-Norman England. Things to see include the ruins of Winchester Castle and the cathedral, a lovely church containing an amazing mixture of architectural styles that blend together very happily. Salisbury is a charming town full of quaint, lovely old houses. Salisbury Cathedral has one of the most graceful spires in the world. Near by is Old Sarum, a fascinating hodgepodge of Roman, Saxon and Norman ruins. A wonderful place for a picnic. The weird prehistoric ruins of Stonehenge stand on the Salisbury Plain a few miles away. Scholars date them about 1,700 B.c.
The West Country . . . The town of Bath, first built by the Romans as a resort spot, is the outstanding place to visit in the west of England. Today, the architecture is late Georgian, built in the eighteenth century when Bath was the most fashionable town in England. Stroll through the Pump and Assembly Rooms. The ruins of the Roman baths are interesting, too. There are quite a few good hotels in Bath. The enchanting little town of Wells is near by and very much worth visiting. Go to Gloucester to see the magnificent, Perpendicular-Norman cathedral and a charming rural English city. The Cloisters have an interesting collection of old manuscripts.
England’s southwest, Somerset, Devon, and Cornwall, has a Gulf Stream-warmed climate making it mild even in winter, with beaches, exciting villages, and a cove-dotted coast, where spring comes early. You might stop at Exeter, in Devon, for a look at its Cathedral (there’s a Devon Motel at Alphington), or at fashionable Torquay. Here you will be surprised by subtropical plants, even some palms. See lush green Plymouth, from whose harbor both Drake and the Pilgrims sailed to make history. The last, most western and southern end of the island is Cornwall, with Land’s End. Along its north coast with its quaint little hamlets lies Tintagel, with its memories of King Arthur. Don’t miss the Cornish pasties.
Oxford and Stratford-on-Avon . . . There is a tremendous amount of territory to cover at Oxford. The famous university is surrounded by ancient traditions and scholarly atmosphere. See Magdalen, New and Christ Church colleges. The Sheldonian Theater is another must.
Clipper and New Horizons, Trade-Marks, Pan American World Airways, Inc. 20M.5.58