Go to Marble Arch on Sundays and hear soapbox orators. Watch the riders along Rotten Row, go to the world-famous London Zoo in Regent’s Park. Take a look at Mme. Tussaud’s Waxworks. Make a point of seeing the changing of the guard at Buckingham or St. James’ Palaces. Take a look at one of the most charming churches to be seen anywhere, St. Martin-in-the-Fields in Trafalgar Square; go to St. James’ Park oif the Mall and watch the ducks. You can do all this by sightseeing bus or just by meandering by yourself. A wonderful way to see London is to take the No. 11 bus, which wanders over a huge territory. Travel by Underground (subway). It is an interesting experience.
A half hour by suburban electric from the center of London is beautiful Hampton Court on the Thames, a great palace built by Cardinal Wolsey as a private residence. The palace contains a wonderful art gallery and an interesting collection of historic English furniture. Its hundreds of square feet of windows look out on the most glorious gardens in England. There are geometric boxwood mazes for you to wander through, quaint walled Elizabethan flower beds and graceful groupings of beautiful trees and shrubs. Hampton Court is another all-day sight. In fair weather you may take a river boat up the Thames between Westminster and Hampton Court through Richmond.
Windsor Castle definitely deserves a day of your time in and around London. It is an hour from Paddington or Waterloo Stations by train and a little longer by bus. William the Conqueror started it and Henry III and Edward III both made additions to the huge building. Windsor is a royal residence. Each monarch has left the mark of his era on the interiors. There are some fine foreign paintings by Rubens, Rembrandt and others and a wealth of British portraits. State apartments are interesting and also the Queen’s Doll House. (There is a shilling admission charge to the former and sixpence to the latter.) Proceeds go to charity. Climb the 220 steps of the Round Tower and you will be rewarded by a marvelous view of the surrounding countryside that has changed very little since Chaucer stood on the same ramparts. The best way to see the lovely Great Park that surrounds this fairyland castle is in an open carriage. The things to do and see outside of London are numerous and fascinating. In the following short description of some of the major highlights, England has been roughly divided into seven sections. The English countryside is dotted with enchanting little inns and the food is comparable with that in the large cities.
The South of England . . . English history began here in the south. Probably the most important place to visit in England, outside of London, is the ancient town of Canterbury, 65 miles to the southeast. The magnificent Canterbury Cathedral is the seat of the Church of England. This imposing Gothic church was built during four centuries. The first church was consecrated on its site in 597 a.d. The grounds around the cathedral are lovely. If you plan to go to Canterbury, make your reservations before you leave the United States. It is