Reasons vtiby Winter Overseas flying is Wonderful when you Qo by Clipper
The Double-Decked “America"-Clans Clipper
|l#	Over Ocean Winter Weather
FAVORS Your Clipper’s Flight
There are good meteorological reasons why this is true. In winter over the Atlantic there is cold, dense air coming down from the polar regions and warm, moist air coming up from the tropics. The two act on each other to whip up those famous winter ocean storms and gales. But — since the cold dense air hugs the ocean surface and the warmer air travels immediately above it —-most storms disturb only the lower levels of the atmosphere. You never feel them up-above-the-weather — where your Clipper is flying.
Of course there are exceptions. Some storms do rise to the upper air levels, yet when they do, they actually assist the aircraft on its way. That’s because North Atlantic winds flow counterclockwise around a storm center. So using Pressure Pattern Flying your pilot can avoid the storm center and hitch onto a helpful tailwind south of the storm — to give you a smoother, faster ride to Europe. Likewise, on the way back, Pan American pilots look for a tailwind north — so they can shorten your return trip to the U. S. A. So you can see why going or coming — winter weather favors a smooth, fast trip across the Atlantic.
Inside Your Clipper Cabin
The “Weather's“ Ideal
What with pressurization, heating and air conditioning you’ll find your Clipper cabin pretty nearly reproduces ideal sea level “room weather”. And to make sure you’re comfortable there’s your super-luxurious seat, wonderful meals, and a Stewardess and Purser to wait on you. Like the thousands of others who fly the Atlantic in winter, you’ll probably say, “That’s for me. Winter overseas flying is wonderful”.
The Double-Decked "America//-Class Clipper
Newest addition to Pan American’s world-girdling fleet — this is the largest, fastest plane flown by any airline. Quite literally a “hotel in the sky” it gives you the luxury of a double deck among countless new features designed for your comfort.
The Constellation-Type Clipper
These are the celebrated Clippers that have carried so many passengers, so many thousands of miles. For long the backbone of the transatlantic fleet — they have helped put Pan American’s name first and foremost in international service.
"The President" Flight — N. Y. to London, 13 Hrs.l
The deluxe extra-fast flight — with Sleeper and Sleeperette* Service on the new Double-Decked “Amer-ica”-Class Clipper. Operating in addition to Pan American’s daily European flights, it leaves New York Fridays at 4 P.M. (EST) — and London Sundays at 7 P.M. (Local Time). An extra fare flight — it slashes N.Y.-London flying time to 13 hours!
*Trademark, Pan American Airways, Inc.
Clipper Flight Crews give you the World’s Most Experienced Flying
Besides the Purser and Stewardess whose chief concern is with keeping you comfortable — every Clipper carries a crack flight crew up forward. And this crew is never out of instant radio touch with land or with the AVeather Ships stationed at intervals across the Atlantic. The average Clipper Captain has had over a million-and-a-half miles in the air. The First Officer who assists him is usually a rated Captain himself.So it goes throughout the crew: The Second Officer acts as navigator, but he’s also a licensed pilot. The Flight Engineer has the help of the amazing new Engine Analyzer with which Pan American’s “America” Clippers are equipped.
Before your trip begins, its course is plotted from the latest weather reports. That course is constantly checked en route, and followed or changed according to newly developing conditions. Pan American’s careful training of crews, its use of the newest navigational and safety equipment undoubtedly has much to do with the fact that it holds more safety records than any other airline. They’re the basic reasons why you can rely on
the planes and crews of “the world’s most experienced aii'line” to see to it that you get a smooth winter trip across the Atlantic.
The Constellation-Type Clipper