ROUND
SOUTH AMERICA
featuring
INCA LAND & THE LAKES REGION
PANAMA • PERU * BOLIVIA - CHILE - ARGENTINA URUGUAY • BRAZIL • TRINIDAD CRUISE 212 - 40 DAYS
1st day
2nd day
3rd day to
6th day
7th day to
9th day
10th day
11th day
12th day to
14th day
U. S. GATEWAY — Leave by plane over the Caribbean Sea to Panama (overnight flight over Central America from Los Angeles).
PANAMA — You will marvel at the engineering feat of the Canal and its locks, also visit the ruins of old Panama. Evening departure by plane to Peru.
LIMA — Visit "The Beautiful City of the Kings" founded by Pizzaro, one time capital of Spanish America. You will drive through historic squares, past busy markets, visiting the great Cathedral with Pizzaro's remains, the Spanish-Moorish house of the Torre Tagle family, and San Marcos University, claiming to be the oldest in the Americas. After admiring the marvelous collection of Inca and pre-Inca relics in the National Museum, drive through fashionable residential suburbs. CUZCO — Three day side trip by four-engined Faucett airliner to Cuzco-pronounced Kosco—and its vicinity, a veritable treasury of Inca and pre-Inca ruins and many colonial churches and convents. During your stay in Cuzco, the one time capital of the Inca Empire, embracing a third of the continent, there will be a half day drive around the city proper to the principal points of archeologic and historic interest. The next day, there will be a full day excursion to Macchu Picchu, 77 miles northward by auto rail; here you cross a wide footbridge made of bamboo trunk from where a 2,000 foot climb is made on horseback up the mountain on which the impressive ruins, staircases, and megalithic constructions combine to make one of the unique historic sites of the world.
LAKE TITICACA — By day train to Puno for the crossing of the highest navigable body of water in the world.
LA PAZ — Visit the capital of Bolivia, the highest in the world, at the foot of majestic Illimani.
AREQUIPA — Fly to the city of Eternal Sunshine at the foot of El Misti. Afternoon sightseeing. Connect in Lima with express plane to Chile.
In the Inca Country
24