ROUND
SOUTH AMERICA
15th day to
17th day 18th day to
23rd day
24th day to
28th day
29th day 30th day
31st day 32nd day
33rd day to
37th day
38th day 39th day
40th day
SANTIAGO — Visit the capital of Chile in a beautiful setting at the foot of the Andes, and excursion by train to the fashionable ocean resort of Vina del Mar, near Valparaiso. CHILEAN AND ARGENTINE LAKES — Overland trip by rail, lake steamer, and motor through an incomparable setting of mountains, volcanoes, and lakes, visiting Puerto Varas, Peulla, and Osorno, in Chile and Puerto Blest, Bariloche, and Liao Liao, in Argentina. By plane across the Pampas to Buenos Aires.
BUENOS AIRES — Visit the cosmopolitan capital of Argentina, the largest city in Latin America, with wide tree-lined boulevards, magnificent buildings, numerous parks, famed restaurants and entertainment showplaces.
MONTEVIDEO — Winging northbound to the great cities of the Atlantic shores of South America, your first stop will be Montevideo for a sightseeing tour of the prosperous, clean and progressive capital of Uruguay.
SAO PAULO — Your first stop in gigantic Brazil will be its second largest city, Sao Paulo, center of the coffee trade. The atmosphere is cosmopolitan and the tempo of life brisk. Drive around the city and into the suburbs to visit the famous Butantan Snake Farm.
RIO DE JANEIRO — Your next stop is the capital of Brazil with its beautiful harbor dotted with numerous islands in the ultramarine water; the background of grey-green hills, is a sight never to be forgotten. Visit the city proper, drive along the beautiful beaches; then a thrilling cable ride to the peak of the famous granite cone the "Pao de Assucar" or Sugar Loaf Mountain.
TRINIDAD — Winging over the great jungles of Brazil and again over the Equator at the mouth of the majestic Amazon River, you alight on the island of Trinidad for a leisurely visit of this picturesque West Indian trading center, another shopping paradise. Drive over the Saddle Back Pass to enjoy the panorama, returning by way of Maracas Bay.
U. S. GATEWAY—Homeward bound via New York or Miami.
RATES FOR LAND PORTION:
each of 4, $900.00; each of 3, $975.00; each of 2, $1040.00 See page 31 for what is included.
AIR FARES
See separate rate sheet in order to compute total cost of your Air-Land Cruise. You have a choice of first class or tourist class fares from and to several gateways.
Argentine Gauchos
25