HERE'S WHAT THE CRUISE FARES INCLUDE AIR FARES
(See Rate Sheet)
Air transportation — between all U. 5. Gateways and other points specified, with a choice of first class or tourist class fares on South American routes, except that certain local flights are included in cost of land arrangements as specified below. Air-Sea Cruises are based on first class minimum accommodations on steamer.
LAND PORTIONS
Rates shown in this folder are for two or more persons travelling together. Rates will be submitted on request for persons travelling alone.
Land transportation — between all points specified by first class rail (parlor car seats and Pullman berths), motor, and lake or river steamers.
Local sightseeing flights — the following side trips not included in main "Air Fares" are provided in the cost of your land portion: round trip Lima-Cuzco; one way Bariloche-Buenos Aires or vice-versa; round trip Buenos Aires-lguazu Falls; round trip Mexico City-Acapulco.
Hotels — the best available, basis sharing a twin-bedded room, unless supplement is paid for single rooms. Private bath wherever available. Meals — three a day in steamers, planes, at hotels, in dining cars, during excursions, or en route, basis plain breakfast, and table d'hote luncheons and dinners, except in Mexico City proper, Ciudad Trujillo, San Juan, Panama, Port of Spain, Rio de Janeiro, and Buenos Aires, where hotels operate only on European plan or where famous restaurants are recommended.
Sightseeing — for all trips specified includes exclusive use of private automobiles, except in Mexico or unless otherwise stated; the services of an English-speaking guide or chauffeur; admission to museums, ruins, etc.
Transfers — covering passengers and two pieces of hand luggage between airports, piers, hotels and other points of arrival and departure en route.
Gratuities — service charges on hotel bills are included, except in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.
Taxes — cover government charges on hotel services.
HERE'S WHAT THEY EXCLUDE
Transportation between traveler's home town and the Gateway points where Cruises originate and terminate; passport and visa charges; U. S. transportation tax which applies to certain air portions; baggage in excess of 66 lbs. on main routes and 55 or 44 lbs. on local sightseeing flights; laundry, valet service, wines and liquors, and other expenses of a purely personal nature.
Passport and visas — U. S. citizens will need a passport except for Cruises'201, 202, 203, and 204. Tourist cards, visas, and other certificates are required for several countries and your Travel Agent will assist you with these formalities.
Responsibility—All arrangements for main airline transportation are made by Pan American World Airways, Inc., which company is not to be held responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft. The passage contract ticket in use by Pan American World Airways System, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the airline and the purchaser of these tours and/or the passenger.
All these Cruises will be carried out under the business management of Exprinter Travel Service, Inc.
The management acts as agent for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and other principals. While exercising every care possible, all tickets issued are subject to the terms and conditions under which such owners or contractors operate, for which neither the management nor any affiliated or subsidiary company shall be or become liable or responsible in any way. The management cannot be held responsible for personal injury or loss of passengers' baggage, nor for any delay, accident, or loss of personal property, or for additional expenses, due to war, storm, floods, disruption of advertised schedules, or other causes beyond their control, and any such expenses would have to be borne by the passenger.
The management also reserves the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or en route, or to withhdraw any tour. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar and will be lowered or raised in accordance with the values prevailing when you pay the final balance of your tour. Fares are.subject to change without notice.
No. 147 Published by Exprinter Travel Service, Inc.