ROUND
SOUTH AMERICA
BY SEA AND BY AIR
WEST INDIES ‘ BRAZIL ‘ URUGUAY ‘ ARGENTINA CHILE - PERU ‘ PANAMA
CRUISE 213 - 38 DAYS
1st day
14th day to
17th day
18th day 19th day
20th day 21st day
22nd day to
25th day
26th day
27th day to
29th day
30th day to
32nd day
33rd day to
35th day
NEW ORLEANS — Leave in the DEL SUD, DEL NORTE, or DEL MAR of the Delta Line, calling en route at St. Thomas, Virgin Islands
OR
NEW YORK - Leave in the ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, or URUGUAY of the Moore-McCormack Lines, calling at Trinidad, Barbados, and Bahia, Brazil, on most sailings (the duration of which varies betwen 13 and 15 days).
RIO DE JANEIRO — Stay at a beach front hotel and enjoy life in the gay capital of Brazil. You will drive around the most beautiful city in the world, past many beaches and handsome buildings, and thrill to the cable ascent of Sugar Loaf Mountain for a fascinating bird's eye view of the bay and surrounding mountains.
SAO PAULO — Start grand inland tour of South America by Pan American World Airways plane. Your first stop will be in Brazil's second largest city, center of the coffee trade. The atmosphere is cosmopolitan and the tempo of life brisk. Drive around the cityand into the suburbs to visit the famous Butantan Snake Farm.
MONTEVIDEO — Winging southbound to the great cities of the Atlantic shores of South America, you stop at Montevideo for a sightseeing tour of the prosperous, clean, and progressive capital of Uruguay.
BUENOS AIRES — Visit the cosmopolitan capital of Argentina, the largest city in Latin America, with wide tree-lined boulevards, magnificent buildings, numerous parks, famed restaurants and entertainment showplaces.
SANTIAGO — Over the lofty passes of the great Cordillera of the Andes by Panagra plane to Santiago.
VINA DEL MAR —Visit Santiago, the capital of Chile, in a beautiful setting at the foot of the Andes, and the fashionable ocean resort of Vina del Mar, near Valparaiso. Leave Santiago by plane over its nitrate fields of Chile to Lima.
LIMA — Visit "The Beautiful City of the Kings" founded by Pizzaro, one time capital of Spanish South America. You will drive through historic squares, past busy markets, visiting the great Cathedral with Pizzaro's remains, the Spanish-Moorish house of the Torre Tagle family, and San Marcos University, claiming to be the oldest in the Americas. After admiring the marvelous collection of Inca and pre-Inca relics in the National Museum, drive through fashionable residential suburbs. CUZCO — Three day side trip by four-engined Faucett airliner to Cuzco—pronounced Kosco—and its vicinity, is a veritable treasury of Inca and pre-Inca ruins and many colonial churches and convents. During your stay in Cuzco, the one time capital of the Inca Empire, embracing a third of the continent, there will be a half day drive around the city proper to the principal points of archeologic and historic interest. The next day, there will be a full day excursion to
26