We’ve got 13 habitats in Latin America.
As you can see by our map, Pan Am has Latin America covered. And we fly there from over 30 U.S. cities.
MEXICO CITY GUATEMALA CITY SAN SALVADOR SAN JOSÉ MARACAIBO
PANAMA CITY CARACAS GUAYAQUIL RIO DE JANEIRO SÀO PAULO MONTEVIDEO BUENOS AIRES SANTIAGO
To most of those destinations in Latin America you can book your clients on one of our many nonstops. There again you have a choice because Pan Am has nonstop service originating from New Tork, Los Angeles or Miami.
A service for every species of traveler.
Whether your clients are frugal birds or like to fly in style, Pan Am has a service to please. And it doesn’t matter if it’s First Class, Clipper® Class or Economy, we know just how to make their flight a pleasant one. In this case experience really does count!
Room to spread their wings.
(Without ruffling feathers)
Pan Am’s Clipper® Class offers your business travelers the room and comfort of only 6 across seating, where other carriers would squeeze in eight. Pan Am’s way makes for plenty of breathing space to work or
Our First Class section offers our now famous (and often copied) Sleeperette® Seats that make longer flights a restful experience.
And remember, both your'First Class and Clipper® Class travelers can get advanced boarding passes.
Pan Am Holidays has prices no one will squawk at.
We have six all-inclusive air/land packages to twelve of the most popular Latin American destinations. These low prices include roundtrip airfare from Miami and are per person/ double occupancy. Add-on rates are available for other Pan Am cities.
•	Rio Rendezvous—an 8 day independent vacation from $749 to $1,099.
•	Rio/Buenos Aires Cosmopolitan Holiday—a 9 day independent vacation from $899 to $1,099.
•	Venezuelan City and Sea—an 8 day independent vacation from $699 to $789.
•	Galapagos Adventure—a 9 day independent vacation from $1,679.
•	Three City Showcase (Santiago, Buenos Aires and Rio)—a 10 day inde pendent vacation from $1,329 to $1,369.
•	Guatemala Explorer—an 8 day independent vacation for $749.



Pan Am also offers a choice of 13 City Stay vacations from Mexico City to Buenos Aires. Prices start at $127 per night, per person/double occupancy.
Great packages like these, plus the fact that the dollar is so strong in Latin America, means there couldn’t be a better time to fly south.
And don’t forget, you’ll earn 17.5% commission on all groups of 25 people or more that you book with Pan Am Holidays.
All Pan Am Holidays independent vacations include U.S. departure taxes and U.S. customs and immigration fees. All prices are guaranteed on deposit and include the benefits of the Pan Am Holidays Travel-Assist Network^ Varying departure dates and weekend surcharges apply. Space subject to availability.



. ’
• .
Our WoridPass® program is worth chirping about.
It’s worth chirping about because your clients can earn mileage on any flight to Pan Am’s 13 destinations in Latin America. And they can redeem their awards to select destinations worldwide. That means free trips to Europe,
India, Africa, the Caribbean and Latin America.
Your clients will also love our WorldPhss® program because there are no blackout dates or capacity controls. So they can fly free when they want year-round.
Pan Am WorldPass.
ALEXANDER G POUER
Feather your nest with our WoridClub program
It’s easy to earn free travel on Pan Am as a member of our WoridClub program. Book your clients on Pan Am or Pan Am Holidays and earn points toward free trips to over 100 cities worldwide. If you’d like an application or need any additional information, call (609) 695-4074.