New Antiquities ^
15 days from $419
plus air fare
Panama • Costa Rica • El Salvador • Guatemala
Panama	3	Nights
San Jose	3	Nights
San Salvador	3	Nights
Guatemala City	5 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day city sightseeing tour in Panama including the Canal; San Jose,
San Salvador and Guatemala City.
•	Full day tour to Lake llopango and the handicraft center of Ilobasco in El Salvador, including lunch.
•	Motorcoach transfer from San Salvador via Tazumal to Guatemala City, including lunch.
•	Full day sightseeing tour of the Mayan jj Market Center of Chichicastenango and volcano-ringed Lake Atitlan.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Assistance of Pan Am’s World Representative.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA/PANAMA.
Pan Am Jet Clipper flight to Panama. Transfer on arrival to your hotel.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
PANAMA.
Morning sightseeing tour.
Remainder of the day at leisure.
A half-day sightseeing tour will take you to the ornate National Cathedral, the
3RD DAY. SUNDAY: PANAMA.
Free day to explore on your own or take an optional tour.
Ceremonial parade at Chichicastenango
President’s Palace with its Moorish courtyard; and San Jose, the church whose lovely gold altar was saved from the Pirate Morgan’s attack in 1671. You’ll drive through the old part of town to Las Bovedas—the turreted seawall built by the Spaniards to keep out pirates. (It didn’t work.) Then on to the fame of new Panama: the Canal and Locks. Here, ships pass between Atlantic and Pacific through the amazing system of waterways.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY: SAN JOSE.
Morning sightseeing tour of the city. Afternoon free.
The sights of San Jose await you. You’ll spend half a day seeing the National Theatre with its exquisite sculpture and paintings; the National Museum, an old fortress now used to display interesting pre-Spanish artifacts; the University and residential districts. Spend some time at the Metropolitan Cathedral, and enjoy the sights and smells of a coffee mill. The rest of the day at leisure. In the evening, watch the promenade of young people in Central Avenue—a ritual evening inspection tour for singles.
4TH DAY. MONDAY: PANAMA/SAN JOSE.
Transfer to the airport for the flight to San Jose. You will be met on arrival and transferred to your hotel. The remainder of the day is free.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
SAN JOSE.
Full day at leisure.
Choose volcanoes, plantations, geysers, or just fun. You won’t want to miss the trip to Irazu Volcano, just an hour and a half from San Jose. And on the way back, stop at Cartago, the Spaniards’ capital city.