General Information
Reservations. To qualify for Group Air Tariffs (GIT), reservations must be made at least 15 days before departure, but to assure reservations on popular tours or departures, book at least 42 days in advance.
Land Tour Services only. If you are planning to spend more time in Central America than the GIT air fare allows, and still want to enjoy Pan Am’s World tour arrangements on a particular tour, then book Land Only. Join us in the first city visited on the tour of your choice till the last city on the itinerary. However, airport transfers are included only when participants travel on flights reserved for the group. When joining and/or leaving tour other than by tour flights, transfers are not included.
Deposit. On all tours $75.00 per person deposit; Exception, full payment must accompany reservations made within 42 days of tour departure date. These payments may be made with Pan Am Credit Travel Plan, Universal Air Travel Plan, American Express, Diners Club (also Torch Club), Master Charge, Bank Americard (Visa) or Carte Blanche.
Final Payment is due 42 days prior to departure of the tour.
Cancellations. Full refund will be made for cancellations received up to 35 days before the departure date. Cancellations, or changes in departure date or hotel accommodation, received within 35 days of the departure date will be subjected to a cancellation charge of $35 per person; Exceptions, $50 per person on Mayan Adventure tour and $100 per person on The Mayan Empire tour. Cancellations received less than 7 days from the departure date will additionally be subjected to forfeiture of 25% of the applicable air fare in accordance with regulations of the International Air Transport Association. Refunds will be processed upon receipt of membership card(s).
Refund of Unused Tour Arrangements. Unused hotel accommodations or any other unused service or feature of any tour are not refundable nor exchangeable for other accommodations, services or features. All refund claims must be submitted within 60 days of completion of the tour.
Air Transportation. Tour participants will travel by regularly scheduled Pan Am economy jet services. The services of other scheduled airlines may be used for flights within the USA and Central America. Tour prices are based on Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) fares requiring a minimum of tour passengers. All air fares are subject to government approval. A US Government International Transportation Tax of $3.00 per person is applicable to all departures.
Hotels. Tour costs are based on two persons sharing a twin-bedded room with private bath or shower in the category selected. A limited number of single rooms is available at the supplement shown for each tour. Triple room accommodations are based on a twin-bedded room with a folding or roll-away bed for the third person. The right is reserved to substitute hotels of similar category to those shown in the brochure should circumstances make it necessary. Check-out is noon time in most hotels. Tour participants arriving on early
morning flights may therefore be obliged to wait until their rooms have been vacated by the previous occupant. Hotels will do their best to get you settled as soon as possible and your understanding of the situation is appreciated.
Taxes. Hotel service charges and taxes are included throughout.
Baggage. To/from the USA. Limited to a maximum of 2 pieces of luggage, the combined total dimensions of both bags may not exceed 106 inches and no one piece may be larger than 62 inches. One or more pieces of carry-on luggage is allowed, the total combined dimensions may not exceed 45 inches. Within Central America, free baggage allowance on board aircraft is 20 kilograms (44 lbs.) per person.
Strict enforcement of the regulations will be adhered to. All excess baggage charges will be collected at the airport.
Baggage is at “owners risk” throughout the surface portion of the tour unless properly insured.
Porter’s Tips. Tips to porters for two pieces of luggage are included in the tour prices. Porterage is included only after you have passed through the customs area at the airport. Flight bags or tote bags must be carried by the tour member.
All Departures are subject to a minimum of tour participants. In the unlikely event that this number does not materialize well in advance of departure, you will be offered either a departure on the same date but via a different departure point, or a different departure date or comparable tour or a full refund on the deposit paid. Sightseeing. Indicated in each itinerary, including entrance fees where applicable, and the services of an English-speaking guide.
Local Host Service will be provided in each city.
Meals are not included unless specifically indicated in the tour features pertaining to each itinerary.
Possible Changes in Itinerary. Air schedules change frequently in Central America which is beyond our control. We will make every effort to keep our itineraries as they are shown in this brochure; however, the right is reserved to make changes if it becomes necessary. Occasionally, the land portion of your tour may be extended or curtailed because of unforeseen changes in transporation schedules.
A Note On Holidays. During local or national holidays abroad certain facilities such as museum, sightseeing tours and shopping may be limited. If your enjoyment of the tour might be diminished by such limitations, please check for holidays with National Tourist Offices before selecting a departure date.
Travel Documents Required of US Citizens. A valid US Passport. Most countries also require a tourist card for entry.
All Tour Prices are based on tariffs and currency exchange rates in effect on May 1, 1978 and are subject to change.
Validity of this brochure from January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1979.
Rely on Your Travel Agent
When you plan your Pan Am’s World trip you should rely on your Travel Agent. His unique professional experience will help save you vacation time and money.
Your Travel Agent can help you in a variety of ways. With first hand knowledge he can give you first-rate advice on what to see, where to go and which Pan Am’s World tour you might enjoy most. What’s more, he can tell you what to pack, what local customs are, and all the other insider’s information that can turn a vacation into a pleasantly memorable experience.
Your Travel Agent can take care of all the details. And best of all, with our PANAMAC computer and other electronic communications systems, your Travel Agent can confirm tour reservations instantly.
Not Included in the Cost of the Tour. The following taxes are not included: US Government International Transportation Tax ($3.00); Airport taxes in Costa Rica ($7.00); El Salvador ($3.00); Guatemala ($5.00); Mexico ($5.00); Panama ($5.00); Peru ($5.00); and other departure taxes. These taxes are per person and are only approximate as currency may change and governments may assess different taxes. All items of a purely personal nature such as laundry, telephone calls, shopping expenses, etc.; beverages or meal items not included in table d’hote menus provided on a group basis; meals not indicated in the itinerary; sightseeing and tours other than those specifically included; tips to guides and drivers; excess baggage charges. Responsibility. Pan American World Airways, Inc., and/or its agents assume no responsibility or liability in connection with the service of any train, vessel, carriage, aircraft, motor, or other conveyance which may be used wholly or in part in the performance of their duty to the passengers, neither will they be responsible for any act, error, or omission, or for any injury, loss, accident, delay or irregularity which may be occasioned by reason of any defect in any vehicle, or through neglect or default of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger; or for any hotel proprietor, or for any other person, engaged in carrying out the purpose for which tickets or coupons are issued. In the event it becomes necessary or advisable for the comfort or well being of the passengers, or for any reason whatsoever, to alter the itinerary or arrangements, such alterations may be made without penalty to the tour operators. Additional expenses, if any, shall be borne by the passengers. The right is reserved to withdraw any or all tours should conditions warrant, also to decline to accept or retain any passengers as a member of a tour. In such instances full or equitable amount will be refunded, but this amount shall not exceed the amount paid by the passengers. No refund can be made for any feature of the program not used by the passenger during operation of the tour. The sole responsibility of any airline used in any tour is limited to that set out in the passenger contract evidenced by the ticket. Airlines and other carriers are not responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyances. Similar responsibility as noted above applies to all types of carriers, including car rental companies. In addition to Pan American World Airways the services of any IATA, ATC or local carrier may be used in connection with these tours.
Photographs. Cover: Guatemalan natives.
Credit: Richard Steedman, The Image Bank.
Contents page: Pyramid of Tazumal, El Salvador.
Places pictured are in the geographical area but may not be included in specific tours described herein. Travel Industry Act of Ontario Registration Number 1412996.
Air fares quoted in this book are subject to change. Pan Am guarantees you pay the lowest applicable fare upon your departure.
Consult An Expert—Your Travel Agent.
Printed in U.S.A. CA 29854