Mayan Adventure ^
15 days from *736 plus air fare
Guatemala • Mexico
Guatemala City	4 Nights
Flores	2 Nights
Rio Hondo	2 Nights
Lake Atitlan	1 Night
Merida	3 Nights
Uxmal	1 Night
Chichén—Itza	1 Night
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	All meals on tours in Guatemala (except Guatemala City); 5 breakfasts,
7 lunches and 5 dinners.
•	All meals while on tour in Mexico (except Merida); 2 breakfasts, 2 lunches, and 2 dinners.
Coral reefs of Merida
It should be noted that the five day Eastern Guatemala portion of this tour is somewhat rigorous due to travel by jeep on rough jungle trails and spartan hotel accommodations; however, most travelers feel this area should not be missed.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Mayan Archaeology, Art and Architecture lecture.
•	Air transportation between Guatemala/Tikal and Flores/Guatemala.
•	Sightseeing tour of Tikal, Flores, Seibal, Quirigua, Copan, Chichicasten-ango, Lake Atitlan, Antigua, Uxmal and Chichen-Itza.
•	Visit to the Museum of Archaeology in Guatemala City.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour in Merida.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Professional tour escort during trips outside of Guatemala City and Merida.
•	Assistance of Pan Am’s World Representative.
•Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover.)
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/GUATEMALA.
Board your Pan Am Jet Clipper for Guatemala City. Assistance on arrival and transfer to hotel. Evening lecture.
In the evening you will be taken to a lecture on the Mayan civilization. The lecture will give you a clearer picture of the various Mayan cities and what relationship they have with each other and will prepare you for the trip you’ll be taking to the Mayan ruins.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY: GUATEMALA/TIKAL/FLORES. Full day tour to Mayan ruins at Tikal. Lunch in Tikal. Dinner and overnight in Flores.
Transfer to the airport for an early flight to Tikal, the Mayan ruins located in the heart of the jungle. The Mayan people simply disappeared from Tikal centuries ago leaving pyramids and temples to be over-run by the vegetation. In the late afternoon you will continue to Flores for overnight.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
FLORES.
Breakfast at the hotel. Early morning departure for full day tour of the ruins at Seibal. Lunch en route. Dinner and overnight at the hotel in Flores.
A sightseeing tour of Flores will be provided before you depart by jeep to the Mayan ceremonial center at Seibal.
The site covers an area of about one square kilometer. The main ceremonial center consists of three groups of structures each occupying a separate hilltop with all structures connected by a system of artificial causeways. The carved stelae, altars and ceramics from Seibal suggest that this was one of the last thriving centers of Mayan civilization in the 9th and early lOth-centuries A.D.
4TH DAY. MONDAY:
FLORES/GUATEMALA/RIO HONDO.
Breakfast at hotel. Morning flight to Guatemala City. Lunch at a local restaurant and a visit to the Museum of Archaeology before departure by motorcoach for Rio Hondo. Dinner and overnight at Rio Hondo.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY:
RIO HONDO/COPAN/ RIO HONDO.
Breakfast at hotel. Early departure for sightseeing at Copan including lunch. Late afternoon return to Rio Hondo.
You’ll have time to explore and marvel at the unique Mayan artifacts left from this ancient city which was once an astronomy and religious center.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
RIO HONDO/GUATEMALA. Breakfast at hotel. Morning tour to Quirigua. Lunch and afternoon return to Guatemala City. Remainder of the day at leisure.
After breakfast you’ll depart for your tour to the site of Quirigua. Quirigua is a late Classic ceremonial center boasting the tallest stela in the Maya world. Stela E weighs 65 tons and stands 35 feet tall. A likeness of Stela E appears on the Guatemalan ten cent coin.
After your tour stop for lunch before the return drive to Guatemala City.
14