OAXACA
Victoria Hotel: Superior 151 room resort hotel. Situated high on a hill with view of the town and mountains, 5 minutes from downtown. All rooms with private bath, phone and patio. Facilities include restaurant, bar, nightclub and heated swimming pool.
PANAMA
Holiday Inn: Superior 256 room hotel located on Punta Paitilla overlooking the entrance to the Canal. All rooms with private bath, air-conditioning, phone, TV and radio. Facilities include swimming pool, casino, restaurant and coffee shop.
RIO HONDO
Motel Longarone: Moderate The hotel’s 40 air-conditioned rooms are located throughout the gardens that surround the pool area. Facilities include restaurant and bar, swimming pool and a small zoo.
SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS CASAS
El Dorado Americana: Superior 255 rooms and suites located 4 miles from the city center and 2 miles from the airport. All rooms have air-conditioning, wall-to-wall carpeting, color television and telephone. Facilities include 2 restaurants, bar and swimming pool.
Hotel Cariari: Superior 160 room resort hotel located on the grounds of the Cariari Country Club. All rooms furnished in pre-Colombian style with TV, telephone and private bath. Facilities include restaurants, bars, coffee shop. Olympic size pool, 18 hole golf course. Tennis, gym and sauna. Hourly bus service to the city.
LAKE ATITLAN
SAN SALVADOR
Camino Real: Superior 237 room hotel located in the Miramonte District 10 minutes from downtown, 30 minutes to the Pacific Ocean. Modern, air-conditioned rooms. Dining room, coffee shop, cocktail lounge, swimming pool and Cabana Club. Hotel Presidente Hyatt: Superior New, opened 1978, 242 room hotel located in the Colonia San Benico District. 10 minutes from downtown, 23 minutes from airport. Modern air-conditioned rooms all have terrace or balcony. Colored TV and phone. Facilities include restaurant, coffee shop, bar, sauna and Olympic size swimming pool.
TUXTLA GUTIERREZ Bonampak Hotel: Moderate 100 room hotel. All rooms with private bath and phone. Facilities include restaurant, bar and coffee shop, 2 pools and handball courts.
UXMAL
Hacienda Uxmal: Moderate Located directly across the highway from the archaelogical zone of Uxmal. All rooms have cross ventilation and ceiling fans. Decor is in contemporary colonial style and rooms open onto a wide, shady verandah facing the patio and gardens. Facilities include restaurant, bar, swimming pool and craft shop.
Hotel Posada Diego de Masarricgo:
Moderate New 60 room colonial style hotel. Comfortable rooms with private bath. Facilities include restaurant and bar.
Camino Real, Guatemala
Del Lago: Superior 100 lake-view rooms located in the town of Panajachel, a few blocks from the main shopping area. The hotel has a lounge and dining room overlooking the pool area and lake.
LIMA
Crillon Hotel: Superior 513 room hotel located in central downtown area. All rooms feature private bath, heating and air-conditioning, telephones, restaurants, bar and sun deck.
MACHU PICCHU
Machu Picchu Hotel: Quality 18 room hotel located at the famous Inca Ruins. Simply furnished rooms with private bath. Restaurant and bar.
MERIDA
Casa del Balam: Moderate Located within walking distance of main plaza and shopping area. All rooms are decorated in colonial style and are air-conditioned. Facilities include roof terrace with bar, restaurant and swimming pool in walled tropical garden.
MEXICO
Alemeda Hotel: Superior 350 room hotel centrally located. Close to shopping and theatres. All rooms with air-conditioning and private bath. Facilities include restaurants, bars, nightclub, rooftop pool and sun deck.
Camino Real, San Salvador
SAN JOSE
Gran Hotel: Moderate 100 rooms. Central location near the National Theatre. Renovated 1975. Comfortable rooms all with private bath. Facilities include restaurant, bar and coffee shop.
Hotel Herradura: Superior 120 room hotel located on the grounds of the Cariari Country Club. All rooms have large beds, telephone and private bath. Restaurant, bar, coffee shop and swimming pool. Guests may use the facilities of the Cariari Country Club; golf course, tennis, gym and sauna. Frequent shuttle bus service to downtown center.