Hotels
Pan Am’s World Tours offer a wide range of hotel categories:
Superior: Superior first class or deluxe hotels. Hotels chosen for their excellent accommodations, amenities and ambience.
Moderate : Medium first class hotels. Hotels selected for their range of amenities, pleasant accommodations, location and standard of service.
Quality : Superior tourist or first class hotels. Hotels offering simple but comfortable accommodations and good value.
Since hotel accommodations form a major part of the land price, your decision may be affected by the type of hotel, its location and features within each of the price ranges. To simplify your decision, we have listed the hotels used by city (in alphabetical order). The descriptions of the hotels have been kept simple and objective; the purpose is to indicate location, main features, and other items which would be of interest to you. Categories are those rated by our own Quality Control rating system. Thus they may differ somewhat from designations in many hotel guides which frequently vary among themselves.
Antigua Hotel, Antigua, Guatemala
ANTIGUA
Antigua Hotel: Moderate 60 room hotel located 3 blocks from the center of historic Antigua. Style is a blend of Spanish Colonial and Spanish California. Rooms are located in secluded cottages with tile baths. Lawn areas surround cottages and swimming pool. Hotel also has dining room and cocktail lounge.
CHICHEN-ITZA
Mayaland: Superior Resort hotel at the Maya ruins of Chichen-Itza. The main hacienda is traditional Mexican style and there are also garden cottages of native architecture. Facilities include restaurant, cafeteria, bar, swimming pool, tropical gardens, library and reading room and gift shop.
COCOYOC
Hacienda Cocoyoc: Moderate 144 room resort hotel. Restored haciendas with modern 20th-century comforts. Spacious rooms furnished in Spanish Colonial style, many with their own pools. Facilities include several restaurants, bar, nightclub, swimming pool, 9 hole golf course, tennis and badminton.
CUZCO
Sayoy: Moderate Recently renovated modern hotel located a few blocks from the city center. All rooms with private bath, central heating and phone. Facilities include 2 restaurants, coffee shop and 2 bars.
FLORES
Maya International: Quality Located on Lake Peten Itza, this hotel features thatched roofed bungalows with private bath, swimming pool and private beach on the lake. It should be noted that this hotel has no hot water and electricity is only available from 5 to 9 A.M. and from dusk until 11 P.M.
El Patio: Quality New hotel located near Lake Peten Itza. Comfortable rooms all with private bath. It should be noted that this hotel has no hot water and electricity is only available from 5 to 9 A.M. and from dusk until 11 P.M.
GUATEMALA CITY Pan American: Quality Centrally located in the heart of the city within walking distance of shops, offices and touristic sights. Traditional in style and decor. 60 rooms with private bath. Dining room and cocktail lounge.
Ritz Continental: Quality Centrally located downtown. 150 rooms in Spanish Colonial decor, many with small balconies, all with radio and telephone. Restaurants, rooftop night club, bars and a heated swimming pool.
Conquistador Sheraton: Moderate 185 rooms located 15 minutes from airport and 5 minutes from shopping area. All rooms are decorated in Spanish Colonial style and have wall-to-wall carpeting, air-conditioning and telephone. Facilities include coffee shop, restaurant, bar, night club and heated swimming pool.
Camino Real: Superior Located 4 miles from the city center and 2 miles from the airport. This Western International Hotel offers over 400 rooms in modern style with air-conditioning, telephone, music, private bath, and large beds, 2 swimming pools, 2 restaurants, 2 cocktail lounges, bar, night club, tennis courts, sauna and health club.
Holiday Inn, Panama City
2