México City	3 Nights
Cocoyoc	1 Night
Oaxaca	2 Nights
Tuxtla Gutiérrez	1 Night
San Cristóbal de las Casas	1 Night
Lake Atitlan	2 Nights
Antigua	1 Night
Guatemala City	2 Nights
Flores	1 Night
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily in Mexico City and Guatemala City.
•	All meals in Mexico except Mexico City. 8 breakfasts, 6 lunches, 5 dinners.
•	All meals in Guatemala, except Guatemala City. 6 breakfasts, 5 lunches,
4 dinners.
•	Welcome cocktail party, Mexico City.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Full day sightseeing tour of Mexico City including lunch.
•	Half-day sightseeing of San Juan Teotihuacán.
•	Transportation by motorcoach on 11 day tour through Mexico & Guatemala.
•	Sightseeing of Taxco, Mitla, Mt.
Alban, Oaxaca, Tehuantepec, Sumidero Canyon, San Cristóbal de las Casas and Comitán in Mexico.
•	Air transportation between Guatemala/ Tikal and Flores/Guatemala.
•	Sightseeing tours of Chichicastenango, Antigua, Tikal and Flores in Guatemala.
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/MEXICO.
Board your flight for Mexico City. Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel. Evening welcome cocktail party.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
MEXICO CITY.
Breakfast at hotel. Morning sightseeing tour of the city. Lunch at a local restaurant. Afternoon sightseeing.
The Floating Gardens of Xochimilco, Mexico
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
MEXICO CITY.
Breakfast at hotel. Morning sightseeing tour of Teotihuacan. Afternoon free.
Your morning tour takes you to the most widely known archaeological zone in Mexico, Teotihuacan. This site covers an area of about 91 square kilometers.
See the Pyramids of the Sun and Moon, temples and courts.
4TH DAY. MONDAY: MEXICO CITY/COCOYOC.
The Mayan Empire ^
15 days from *984 plus air fare
Mexico * Guatemala
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Professional tour escorts during tour outside Mexico City & Guatemala City.
•	Assistance of Pan Am’s World Representative.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
20
Your morning tour will take you to Zócala, the eastern end of the main business district. Visit the Cathedral, National Palace, Residential Area and Chapultepec Park. Lunch at a local restaurant. In the afternoon see University City and the magnificent National Museum of Anthropology.
Breakfast at hotel. Morning departure, Sightseeing tour of Taxco including lunch. Dinner at hotel.
Your motorcoach tour will take you high in the heart of the Sierra Madre Range to the town of Taxco. Lunch and sightseeing in this quaint picturesque mining town. Continue to Cocoyoc.