SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT
Your Travel Agent is an expert on schedules, accommodations and travel requirements in México. He can arrange just the kind of trip you want and take care of bookings, reservations and all kinds of details, including stop-overs, if you wish, in the Caribbean, or extensions to South America. Yet most of his services cost nothing extra. In fact, his firsthand knowledge of tourist fares, economical Mid-Americas Circle Trips, inclusive Pan Am Holiday tours, Excursion Fares, the Family Fare Plan, etc., can actually save you money. And he can arrange everything on Pan Am Pay Later Plan. See him soon.
MEXICANA
PRINTED IN MEXICO
MEXICO CITY
In this great city, one of the oldest in North America, there’s much to enjoy-brilliantly sunny days and nights, bright with vari - colored lights, broad boulevards and bullfights, the mingling of Aztec and old Spanish cultures and customs in ultra-modern settings. In Mexico City the visitor will find it's always fiesta-time, all through the year !
MERIDA
Capital of the State of Yucatan and a beautiful and interesting city in its own right, Merida is also a center from which visitors explore the recently uncovered ancient Mayan cities. In the restored Mayan city of Chichen Itza, for example, you will marvel at the intricate carvings and amazing architecture to be found in the Temple of the virgins , the Market Place, the Hall of a Thousand Columns and other evidences of the fascinating and age-old Mayan civilization.
Oaxaca is an enchanting city, frequently called "The City of Jade because of the green stone, taken from nearby quarries, which decorates many of its handsome buildings. Here you may relax in the sun at one of the many sidewalk cafes. . . shop for exquisitely - fashioned goldwork jewelry... or explore the vast and colorful flower market with its ever-fresh, multi-colored beauty.
EXCITING SIDE TRIPS WHILE ENJOYING YOUR
FIESTA IN MEXICO
PUERTO
VALLARTA
GUADALAJARA ‘
The history of Guadalajara, Mexico's second largest City, dates back to its founding in 1530. But Indian raids made it necessary to move the settlement twice, and not until 1542 was Guadalajara established on its present site. Important as an industrial center, Guadalajara is also a famous resort, with a mild and dry climate, a beautiful mountain setting, and gay night life with a number of excellent theatres.
This paradise for sun lovers with its palm-hatched houses, banana groves and rugged, mountainous coastline, offers the best of swimming and fishing in the romantic atmosphere of the South Seas. In Puerto Vallarta you can live a lazy, simple life and live it like a potentate, at a fraction of the cost !