A Stewardess on a Pan Am Clipper® is a hostess in the broadest sense—the person who welcomes our passengers—and continues to make them feel at home from takeoff to touchdown. She’s a girl of many talents—an engaging conversationalist...expert on foreign currency, customs and passport regulations...proficient at whipping up a delicious meal and serving it miles up in the sky.
A Pan Am Stewardess radiates her genuine interest in others...knows how to reassure the occasional passenger experiencing a touch of “first-flight jitters”...can give first-aid in emergencies—even fill in as a children’s nurse, helping with formula preparations. Being a good stewardess is hard work—but fascinating and enjoyable for the girl who really likes to work with people. Before you apply, ask yourself this question: Am I right for the job and is the job right for me?
Starting salary for a stewardess is $416. per mo. and $478. upon completion of training. Thereafter, pay will be adjusted in six month increments. Salaries mentioned constitute the base pay for 67 hours of flight time per month. However, stewardesses receive substantial compensation for flight time in excess of 67 hours, normal flight time per month averaging approximately 85 hours. A stewardess who flys 85 hours can earn as much as $923. per mo. Pan Am stewardesses also have plenty of opportunity for advancement. When a stewardess meets the requirement of ability and seniority, she may be promoted to the position of Purser, who is the cabin attendant in charge of the aircraft’s cabin crew. A Purser can earn as much as $1,162 per month for 85 flight hours.
After completion of five weeks training at the Pan Am International Stewardess College in Miami, you will normally be based in New York, Miami, San Francisco, Seattle, Los Angeles, Washington or Chicago, and fly to destinations round the world—Europe, Asia, the Pacific, Africa, the Middle East, the Caribbean and South America. If new bases are established, first choice will go to Stewardesses with greatest seniority.
Generally, flight service personnel are rotated from one route to another—with periodic layovers at designated points which change from time to time. However, flight service personnel are able to exercise preferences for monthly flying schedules in accordance with their seniority and qualifications. In all cases, lodgings, food and transportation are provided by Pan Am. Present schedules keep Stewardesses flying about 15 days a month— with trips ranging in length from 1 day for the New York-Bermuda round trip to 12 days or more on a swing through South Africa or South America. The routes you travel are the famous routes of the Flying Clippers—a network that links 81 lands on all 6 continents!
In addition to regular time off between flights, cabin attendants earn 30 days of paid vacation per year. While on annual vacation, Stewardesses and eligible relatives are entitled to fly anywhere over Pan Am’s routes for only 10% of the regular fare.
Since your full pay begins the day you commence stewardess training, Pan Am does not provide employee housing; however, special facilities are used for living accommodations during training in Miami. Each new stewardess must bring money of her own—approximately $300—as a reserve fund and to see her through the first 3 weeks, until she receives her first paycheck.
After the training and assignment to a base station, stewardesses generally prefer to share an apartment, which cuts individual costs considerably.
Again, Pan Am will assist you in arranging temporary hotel reservations and by providing information concerning apartment vacancies, etc.
WHO PAYS FOR THE UNIFORMS?
For the first year, you do. After that, Pan Am furnishes any necessary replacements. Currently, the complete uniform with accessories costs about $375.00. If you wish, we can help arrange for you to pay the initial costs. You can take up to a full year to repay this loan from salary deductions of $25.00 per month.