at the Castle Harbor Hotel, where the current is 220 volts a.c., 60 cycle. The hotel, however, will supply adaptors for standard electric shavers.
FAUNA . . . Eleven species of birds call Bermuda home. But each year fifty to a hundred different species seek shelter from ocean storms. Many varieties make the Islands a regular stopping-off place. Game fish abound in Bermuda’s waters (see sports).
FLORA . . . Plants from many parts of the world adorn the gardens of Bermuda. Probably the most outstanding plant is the Easter lily, in bloom during the months of March, April and May. This lily is grown commercially for cut flowers. There are many other well-known flowering plants such as the gladiolus and amaryllis. Of the woody plants, the oleander, planted extensively as hedges, is the most conspicuous. This plant flowers profusely from April to September. The hibiscus is another beautiful flowering shrub. It blooms almost continuously throughout the year. Other notable shrubs and climbers include the bougainvillea and passion vine.
FOOD . . . Almost everything is imported. There are few farms and only a handful of truck gardens. Milk is pasteurized but expensive. There is virtually no livestock because the cost of feed is high. Bermuda lobster is a famous local dish. Cassava pie, a Christmas dish, in which the root of the cassava plant is grated to make a flour or meal, is filled with chicken or pork and baked. Sweet-potato pudding is native, too. Meals at the hotels, however, are similar to those served in first-class hotels in the United States.
GAMBLING . . . Thursdays and holidays there is horse racing at Hamilton Parish with pari-mutuel betting. There are no gambling casinos.
LANGUAGE . . . English and American.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Same as in the United States.
LIQUOR . . . The chief native drink is West Indian rum, ranging from 35 cents up per drink. Popular American drinks are available and range from 50 cents to $1. Bars in restaurants open on Sundays at noon, are closed from 2:30 to 6:00 p.m. Closing time on week days, and from 6:00 p.m. on Sundays, is midnight; 1:00 a.m. in hotels. Public bars open every day from 10:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. and are closed all day Sunday.
MEDICAL FACILITIES .. . The King Edward VII Memorial Hospital is excellently equipped. Hotels and guest houses have lists of English-, Canadian- and American-trained doctors and dentists.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are three motion picture theaters in Hamilton and many more dispersed throughout Bermuda.
MUSIC . . . Colored bands excel at calypso and popular American music. There are English and American bands, too.
NIGHT CLUBS—CABARETS . . . Bermuda exists without night clubs or cabarets, but there is dancing and entertainment at nearly all the big hotels nightly. No cover charge, no minimum. Bars in restaurants close at midnight. Those in hotels at 1:00 a.m.