ACCOMMODATIONS . . . One of the charms of Bermuda is that you can find almost any type of accommodation you wish, from luxurious hotels with swimming pools and tennis courts to charming quiet guest houses with limited numbers of guests. Rooms in private homes are also available.
Among the luxury hotels: Princess Hotel and Cottages in Pembroke, between Hamilton Harbor and Pitt’s Bay. One of the oldest and most famous hotels. All rooms have baths. Swimming pool, tennis courts, dancing. It has its own beach club on the South Shore. Accommodates 450. Rates: $12 to $21 American Plan. Belmont Manor in Warwick Parish, opposite the city of Hamilton, overlooking the Great Sound. Tennis court, swimming pool, golf course, beach-club privileges. Rates: $12 to $20, Modified American Plan. Castle Harbor in Tucker’s Town. Modern and luxurious. Swimming pool, golf course, private beach, tennis court, skeet shooting, fishing. Dancing nightly. Accommodates 450. Rates: $12 to $21, Modified American Plan (without luncheon). Elbow Beach Surf Club, located on its own beautiful beach. Gay social spot with dancing nightly, social directors, group activity. Each room with bath. Accommodates 320. Rates: $14 to $23 American Plan. St. George Hotel in historical St. George’s. Has special Family Plan and supervised children’s program. Swimming pool, golf course, beach facilities, dancing. Accommodates 200. Rates: $12 to $15 Modified American Plan. The Bermudiana in Pembroke Parish, two minutes from Hamilton: attractive rooms and suites, all with bath, dancing nightly in the Silver Grill or the Sunken Garden; home of the Bermudiana Theater (see theaters for further details); swimming pool, free guest privileges at beach club. $12 to $20 Modified American Plan.
Among the smaller hotels: Harmony Hall in Paget. Accommodates 80 guests. Rates: $12 to $20 American Plan. Inverurie on the harbor in Paget. Accommodates 90 guests. Rates: $12 to $20, Modified American Plan. Some cottage suites. Eagle’s Nest Hotel and Lodge in Pembroke. Accommodates 66 guests. All rooms in hotel with bath. Rates: $12 to $16 American Plan. Harrington House in Hamilton Parish accommodates 50 guests. Rates: $9 to $14 Modified American Plan.
Bermuda abounds in guest houses which offer the same service as hotels but provide a quieter, more leisurely vacation. Most of them limit their guests to 50. Rates are about the same as hotels. Most are American Plan. The following are typical: Cambridge Beaches in Somerset—small cottages and main house, private beaches. All rooms with bath. Rates: $15 to $22 American Plan. The Horizons in Paget near Coral Beach. Main guest house and cottages. All rooms have bath. Rates: $13 to $18 American Plan. Pomander Gate in Paget. Old Bermuda mansion with picturesque cottages (and magnificent flower garden). Swim from dock in Hamilton Harbor; free transportation to beach on south shore. Rates: $13 to $14, American Plan,