with one-horsepower motors, are the most popular form of transportation. Everyone goes everywhere on them. They may be rented by the hour, day, or week. Prevailing rate is $5 a week for bicycles, $15 a week for motor-assisted cycles. There are no automobiles for hire, but there are English taxis. Carriages may be hired by the hour or day with rates fixed by the Bermuda Government. Passenger ferries take you from one point to another. Buses traverse the islands but are apt to be crowded and slow. There are no trains in Bermuda. The railroad was scrapped in 1947.
WATER . . . Bermuda is dependent on rainfall for water supply. Water is excellent to drink. Bottled water available.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tweeds, cashmere and Shetland sweaters, British and Scotch woolens, English leather goods, perfume (much lower than in the States), English pipes and tobaccos, English china (Wedgwood, Spode), silver (great savings here), doeskin gloves and doeskin men’s slacks, West Indian trinkets and gadgets, cedar boxes, calypso sports shirts.
WHAT TO WEAR . . , Women: for spring and summer—cottons, prints or pastel crepes. Shorts and slacks (Bermuda or knee-length shorts preferable). Don’t go cycling in a halter bra; the Colony frowns on overexposure, so keep it conservative. Tweeds, sweaters and woolens in winter and late fall. Evening gowns of seasonal type. A raincoat is necessary the year round. You will find that a beach robe, two bathing suits, culottes or pedal pushers are handy.
Men: Bermuda shorts and slacks in warm weather. Ties and coats are required in some restaurants. Seersucker or linen jackets with shorts, slacks in summer, wool suits in winter. Black or white dinner jackets the year round. White in summer is more comfortable. Raincoat, swimming trunks, T-shirts and a beach robe are essentials.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Not to be missed are seventh-century Fort St. Catherine, the Aquarium, Leamington and Crystal Caves, St. George’s, Gibb’s Hill Light, Devil’s Hole, and the south-shore beaches. A trip through the Marine Gardens in glass-bottom boats is interesting.
An air tour of the islands is fun. Most fun of all is to cycle around, exploring things by yourself, but there are organized tours arranged by Bermuda Reservations Bureau, American Express, Thomas Cook’s, Kitson and Company, and Simmons Tours.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION... In the U. S., Bermuda Trade Development Board, 620 Fifth Avenue, New York City (Tel. Cl 6-6055). In Bermuda, Visitor’s Service Bureau, Hamilton, and Bermuda Trade Development Board, Hamilton. “This Week in Bermuda,” a weekly calendar of events, which also suggests places to see and things to buy and gives practical information for the visitor, is available without charge at hotels and guest houses in Bermuda. Pan American’s office is at 61 Front Street, Hamilton (Tel. 1055). Open 9:00 to 5:00 every day. There are about ten travel agencies, most of which arrange tours, guides for sightseeing, fishing, underwater diving.