PHOTOGRAPHY . .. Bermuda offers a field day for photographers. Even the rankest amateur photographer will want to take along his camera. Black-and-white and color in still and movie film are available at approximately the same price as in the U. S. Pictures (other than color and movie film) can be developed in Bermuda, taking from 3 days to a week, depending on the place, and whether or not you’re in a hurry. Among the best photo subjects are Salt Kettle, Somerset, St. George’s, the South Shore beaches and Gibb’s Hill Lighthouse. The pastel houses and brilliant flowers lend themselves particularly well to color photography.
RELIGION ...Bermuda is Anglican (Church of England), but many other denominations have large congregations. In addition to the Anglican churches are: Presbyterian, Wesleyan-Methodist, Roman Catholic, Christian Science, and Seventh Day Adventist.
RESTAURANTS . . . Majority of hotel dining rooms are open to anyone. Guest houses are the exception. Centered around Hamilton are many restaurants and bars, and there are excellent dining places almost anywhere on the Islands. Tom Moore’s Tavern at Harrington Sound is famous. The Plantation at Leamington Cave is noted for its lobster. La Caravelle in Hamilton is the sole French restaurant. No. 1 Parliament Club is a popular spot for lunch and dinner. The Queen Cafe serves Chinese food. Among the better bars which serve no food are: Swizzle Inn, which, as its name indicates serves fine rum swizzles; “21,” which bears no relation to the famous New York restaurant, but which somehow reminds you of it, and the Longtail Club, with its open-air terraces overlooking the harbor.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . There are many fine shops featuring English antiques and silver at prices lower than in the United States. Trimingham’s and H. A. and E. Smith are world famous for sweaters, tweeds and Bermuda doeskin. Most of the best stores are located in Hamilton and are open daily from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., except during the lunch hour, Thursday, when they close at noon, and Sunday, when they are closed all day.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Cricket is the “national sport.” Matches are played Thursdays and Sundays. Soccer and rugby from October to April. Horse racing except in summer. Water carnivals in indoor pools in the winter. Bermuda Invitation Swimming Meet each August. Golf highlighted by Invitation Tournament in February. Sailing races all year for small boats of all classes. The Newport, R. I.-Bermuda Race occurs every even-numbered year.
SPORTS ...Golf, tennis, sailing (there are small boats for hire which you can sail yourself; larger craft with crew; charter sloops with boatmen). Sailing is year round and important in Island life. Cards may be arranged for the Royal Bermuda Yacht Club. The biennial “Bermuda Race” from Newport. R. I., for the Bermuda Trophy is an event known to all blue-water yachtsmen. Three classes of smaller yachts are raced on Thursdays and Sundays throughout the year: International One-Designs, International 14-ft. dinghies, and Luder 16’s.