The revolutionary differences will be apparent the moment you enter the Jet Clipper and glimpse its extra-wide aisle running down the center of a spacious cabin far roomier than conventional aircraft!
You’ll sink into a deep-cushioned seat—worlds different from any airplane seat you’ve ever flown in before. Scientifically designed for maximum comfort. Push the conveniently located seat-angle control-lean back and relax! Want more fresh air?
Four fully equipped galleys—each boasting an ultra-modern infra-red heating unit—make possible the incredibly fast meal service you enjoy on every Jet Clipper flight!

AIR TRAVEL
Reach up to the control right next to the attendant call-button and dial just the amount of ventilation that suits you best, right from your own fresh-air duct! If you’d like to read, the handy light above your seat is focused precisely where you’d want it; if you wish to nap, a flick of the switch and you’re in restful halflight, softened by the cabin’s interior decor artistically designed by a world-famous decorator! At your fingertips, too, is a roomy ashtray, conveniently placed — out of sight except when you’re using it.
When mealtime comes, you’ll dine on the choicest of gourmet meals, prepared by the renowned Maxim’s of Paris. Enjoy such culinary masterpieces as Rock Cornish Game Hen, Filet Mignon, Lobster Thermidor—all prepared on an ultra-modern infra-red heating unit exactly to your individual taste! You’ll be served faster than ever, thanks to the Jet Clipper’s four fully-equipped galleys. Economy Class Thrift Fare sandwich meals seem to taste better, too, served almost 8 miles above the earth.
Four gleaming lavatories—two in each end of the cabin!—boast the last word in modern fixtures, set in decorator-designed cabinets. Every convenience you could wish for in your own powder room has been included!
Don’t overlook the elegant sky-high Jet Clipper lounge—a delightful place to strike up new friend-
HMMSm
ships and renew old ones. A delightful place, too, in which to sip a favorite highball, a cocktail or liqueur in the atmosphere of a fine private club ...
When the Jet Clipper lands, you’ll deplane from the two large passenger exits located on the left side of the plane, while your baggage is swiftly unloaded on the opposite side through the 707’s efficient, new baggage-handling facilities.
Pan American cabin teams have always strived to show passengers that they are our honored guests. This is one thing the Jet-age will not change—in fact, aboard the 707 Jet Clipper this hospitality will reach its highest point ever. We look forward to the pleasure of welcoming you to the Jet-age soon...