CONDITIONS
Air Transportation “Free” positive space on Pan American World Airways.
Eligibility Program available to Reservations/Sales/ Ticket Agents and Public Contact employees and their spouse.
Hotels Deluxe/First Class or similar.
Meals As indicated in the respective itineraries only.
Trans fers/Tours	Included between airports and
hotels and coach tours.
Tips and Tax Included for hotels and meals.
Not included are those for: personal services or requisits, drinks or extras from regular table d’hote or a la carte meals, airport or visa taxes if applicable and all other services not specifically included e.g. Airport Tax.
Documentation It is the express responsibility of the accepted participants to secure any and all travel documents as required by government regulations to ensure free access for travel.
Responsibility Modification of tour itineraries may occur as a result of schedule changes or through revised arrangements made by those organizing these tours abroad. We reserve the right to adjust the cost or cancel the tour if the number in the group is less than that on which these arrangements were predicted. The tour operators, including independent services connected with these programs act only in the capacity of Agents for the passengers in all matters pertaining to travel, whether by plane, rail, motor car, steamer or any other means of conveyance. They shall not be liable for any injury, damage or loss, occasioned by the neglect of default of any company or person engaged in conveying the tour, or any hotel proprietor or other persons supplying services or materials in connection with these tours.
Pan American and the other transportation companies concerned are not to be held responsible for any act or omission or event during the time passengers are not on board their conveyances. The passage contract in use by the carriers concerned, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between Pan American, and other transportation companies and, the purchaser of these tours and/or passenger.