
BERMUDA TODAY
Visitors today will find Bermuda exactly the same restful mid-ocean paradise they remember from before the war. Recent military activities have in no way affected the charm of the islands, as the U. S. military base was carefully designed to harmonize perfectly with the surrounding terrain and architecture. Americans will be pleased to see this outstanding example of Anglo-American cooperation.
FUN IN THE SUN
Protected to the north by the Gulf Stream, Bermuda enjoys an equable semi-tropic year-round climate. All sports and outdoor recreation may be enjoyed throughout the year. Beautiful beaches of powder-soft sand stretch invitingly for miles along the sunny South Shore. If ’'three’s a crowd” take your bicycle and basket lunch to one of the many secluded bays with coral caves for dressing rooms and only the gulls for company. For golf enthusiasts, who has not heard of the famed Mid Ocean Club course? Or for the less expert there are the excellent Belmont Manor, St. George and Riddell’s Bay courses Weather-proof en-tous-cas and grass tennis courts are plentiful for those who bring their rackets. The many harbors and inlets have been famous in international
yacht racing circles, but for the casual visitor there are native pilots and trim sloops for hire by the day or hour — the thrill of a dream-like moonlight sail among the many islands dotting the Great Sound is a never-to-be-forgotten experience. Sturdy cruisers for deep sea game fishing are at hand; if this be your chosen sport bring along your reel and tackle, the tuna, amberjack and wahoo are waiting to test your prowess. Miles of level road beckon cyclists to explore at leisure colorful hibiscus and oleander bordered lanes winding among lily fields, farms, and sleepy old-world villages. Bermuda’s beaches and winding roads provide an ideal bridle path for riding enthusiasts; saddle horses with or without grooms are available. For those who prefer to take their exercise vicariously we recommend the strictly British soccer and cricket matches — not to mention perhaps the best fun of all, just "lolling in the sun.” A word to all hay-fever sufferers, forget your worries and plan to have fun again; your ailment is strictly alien to Bermuda! And when day is done there is dancing under the stars for those who want romance. However, above all else to the average visitor the outstanding feature of Bermuda has always been and still is relaxation in a quiet colonial atmosphere — the clip-clop of horses’ hoofs and the tinkle of bicycle bells instead of the roar of city traffic.
BROWSING AROUND
For those who wish to see the sights without too much exertion there are innumerable points of interest. The Government Aquarium will give you an entrancing "fish-eye” view of the
brilliantly colored submarine life surrounding the Islands. Galapagos penguins, great sea turtles and other strange and entertaining animals are here found in informal friendly surroundings. Off shore you may see these same and larger species, green morays, shark and an occasional octopus, while you cruise over the famed Sea Gardens in glass bottom boats. Or, if you are more adventurous, don a diving helmet a-la-Beebe and wander at will along the coral strand under the crystal-clear sea viewing marine life in its native element; sea horses, angel fish and the like will be your momentary playmates. Great subterranean caves and deep translucent pools reflecting weird stalactite formations brilliantly lighted by electricity are a sight you can’t afford to miss. The old town of St. Georges, original capital of the Colony, offers a wonderful day’s entertainment strolling through its quaint byways and ancient fortifications; don’t miss St. Peter’s Church renowned as one of the oldest in the Western Hemisphere, or picturesque ferry to St. David’s Island. A ride on this veritable Noah’s Ark will give you a unique picture of truly native life. Bermuda is the oldest self-governing colony in the British Empire. If time permits be sure and take in a session of the Bermuda Legislature, a small scale replica of the mother Parliament in London. And of course no visit is complete without plenty of time allowed for shopping. In spite of the war and shipping shortages Bermuda merchants have managed to keep up their stocks of fine china, rare woolens, perfumes, doeskins, and native cedar craft. Bermuda’s low tariffs make gift purchases easy; and don’t burden your return — dispatch them by Clipper Express — they will have added appeal.
FIRST to serve meals to passengers while in flight (1929) • FIRST air service across the Pacific (1935) •
Copyright 1945, Pan American Airways, Inc.
FIRST plane service across the North Atlantic (1939)