is a cosmopolitan town and international business center, a wealthy artistic town and above all a port, the largest in Europe and third largest in the world. Here are some of the most famous Gothic and Renaissance buildings in all Europe. The Gothic Cathedral has an exceptional carillon and many magnificent masterpieces by Rubens, which are kept covered until noon every day. The Town Hall in Market Place has a fine Renaissance façade. In one corner of the square are several old guild houses. The Museum of Fine Arts contains sixteenth- and seventeenth-century paintings by such great artists as Rubens, Memling, Breughel, Van Dyck and Jordaens. In the Museum Mayer-Van den Bergh, you’ll find other Flemish masters. Other places of interest are the Steen, tenth-century castle, Butcher’s Hall, and Folklore Museum. The best hotel is the Century. Good restaurants are the Critérium, La Belle Meunière and La Rade.
Ardennes . .. Wooded hills and valleys, steep rocks and winding streams abundant with fish, forests teeming with deer, ruins of ancient castles, watermills and hunting lodges—such is the scenery in Ardennes and Fagne. La Roche, Ciney, Bouillon, Arlon are worth a trip. The Grottos of Han on the Lesse river are worth seeing as is the Mardasson Memorial to American troops at Bastogne.
Beloeil Castle, residence of the Princes de Ligne. Rich museum, splendid French-style park with ornamental lakes.
Bruges. . . One of the most beautiful medieval towns of Europe. A one-time harbor, it is now visited for its picturesque old buildings and dreamy canals. The thirteenth- and fourteenth-century Halles (market), with 310-foot belfry; thirteenth-century St. Sauveur cathedral; Gothic Notre Dame church; the Holy Blood Basilica; the thirteenth-century Beguinage and poetic lac d’amour; St. John’s Hospital, where Memling lived and worked and where some of his best paintings are shown; and many other places are a delight. Good hotels are the Duc de Bourgogne (on a canal) and the Princess.
Ghent. . . Another place you won’t want to miss. There is a beautiful view from St. Michael’s Bridge. In one direction is the Enfilade des Monuments, consisting of St. Nicholas Church, Cloth Hall and adjoining Belfry, and the famous St. Bavon’s Cathedral. In the other direction are several Romanesque houses and the Castle of the Counts. Other places to see are the Hotel de Ville, the Abbey de la Byloke, the Chateau of Gerard the Devil, ruins of St. Bavon Abbey.
Liege . . . Wallony’s intellectual and industrial center. Its architectural pride is the sixteenth-century Palace of the Bishop Princes.
Ostend . . . the famed coast resort has long been popular with tourists. There is the Casino, racing, tennis and golf and, of course, the Thermal baths. Knocke-le-Zoute farther up the coast is the newest and finest Belgian shore resort. Here they have the annual summer film festival. There is a casino, too, and a wonderful hotel, La Réserve,
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... Tourist Offices in Town Hall and Central Station, Brussels; Pan American office is in the Shell Building, 55 Cantersteen (Tel. 11-64-05), Brussels.