The Grand’Place, Brussels’ square, is the center of activity and historical interest with in fine cafes and shops.
The fifteenth-century Town Hall dominates the Grand’Place and is surrounded by guild halls representing characteristic trades.
and restaurants; if not, 15 per cent is about the usual amount to tip.
TRANSPORTATION... Good bus service. Taxis, chauffeur-driven cars and drive-yourself cars are plentiful but expensive. Train service is widespread and good.
TOURIST TAXES . . . BF.5.00 in Brussels and lesser amounts elsewhere.
WATER . . . may be drunk without danger in any major city.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Belgian lace from Flanders, linenware, Belgian porcelain, copperware, tapestry, diamonds cut in Antwerp, exquisite jewelry, Belgian crystal, sporting rifles, shotguns and fine, cutlery.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . You do not need evening clothes in this part of Europe. Both men and women should take along medium-weight clothes, with an overcoat for winter. Be sure to take a raincoat and walking shoes and in summer a swimming suit.
WHERE TO GO SIGHTSEEING . .
Brussels . . . Brussels’ architectural jewel is the Grand’Place with its lovely seventeenth-century buildings and the fifteenth-century Town Hall. Nearby is the well-known little statue of Manneken Pis, the most popular citizen of Brussels. The collegiate church of SS. Michel and Gudule (Gothic) with its sixteenth-century stained glass windows, the church of Our Lady of the Sablon (late Gothic) are magnificent monuments to be visited. Other points of interest are the House of Erasmus in Anderlecht, the seventeenth-century Cambre Abbey, the Royal Palace and Park, Parliament Buildings, the Archway of the Cinquantenaire and the nineteenth-century Palais de Justice (one of the largest buildings in the world). The battlefield of Waterloo, with its painted panorama of the famous battle and the Napoleonic relics, is a short distance from the capital, as is the Castle of Gasbeek, which belonged to Count d’Egmont.
Side Trips . . . Belgium is divided into two main sectors; Flanders, the Flemish-speaking flatland of the northwest, reaching to the coast, and Wallony, the French-speaking southeastern part.
Antwerp ... a wealthy metropolis in the rich country of Flanders,