MUSIC . . . There are excellent symphony concerts and occasional ballet at the Palais des Beaux-Arts. Also opera at La Monnaie. Ask your hotel concierge for details.	«
NIGHT CLUBS . . . Night spots in Brussels are big and brassy and on the expensive side. You may have to pay around $2 for a highball and $20 for the bottle of champagne you’re expected to buy, (unless you’re at the bar) hut there’s no cover or minimum. Some require membership fees. Negro entertainers are popular here. Among the better-known and popular places are Le Boeuf Sur le Toit; Parisana; Gaité; Maxim’s; and the Scotch Club. Le Moulin and Mem-ling are less expensive, more intimate. La Nouvelle Equipe is small but has the best dance music in Brussels.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Black-and-white still and movie films are available in Belgium at about the same prices as in the U.S. Geva-color negative or positive film costs BF.65.00 for 120 or 620 roll, developing (costs BF.40.00) of color film takes at least one month, of black and white 24 hours. La Camera, 47 rue de l’Ecuyer, Brussels, is recommended for photo purchases. Photogenic places in Brussels are: Grand’Place, Place de Brouckere (for night pictures), Cinquantenaire, Sablon church, Royal Palace, Royal Park, Palais de Justice.
RELIGION . . . While Belgium is a Roman Catholic country, there are churches of almost every denomination.
RESTAURANTS . . . Some of the most famous restaurants in the world are in Brussels. Among them are: La Couronne and Les Ambassadeurs (“Au Filet de Boeuf”) on the Town Hall Square (Grand’ Place); Restaurant Chantraine (“Epaule de Mouton”) over 290 years old, just off the Grand’ Place; Rôtisserie Ardennaise on the Blvd. Adolphe Max; Le Ravenstein; Rôtisserie d’Alsace; Petit Louvain and Au Filet de Boeuf, Rue des Harengs. There are many, many others. The Carlton and the Savoy are the smartest restaurants in town and offer dinner dancing. These are in addition to the hundreds of restaurants offering foods of many nations on the grounds of the World’s Fair.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Large department stores are open daily (except Sundays) from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Principal ones in Brussels include Au Bon Marché, A L’Innovation, Magasins de la Bourse, Galeries Anspach, and many excellent small luxury shops.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Soccer, tennis, bicycle races, horse races.
SPORTS . . . Yachting, fishing, horseback riding, golf, tennis. You can go hiking, cycling or boating. There are Youth Hostels everywhere. The swimming is magnificent all along the coast.
THEATERS ... In Brussels plays in French at Théâtre Royal du Parc, Théâtre du Palais des Beaux Arts, Théâtre des Galeries, Théâtre National, Théâtre de Poche.
TIME . . . Six hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . Usually 15 per cent is added to your bill at hotels