to all its young girls. In Japan it is a high art, called ikebana. There are special ikebana classes for foreigners.
FOOD . . . Rice, as everyone knows, is the staple food. The Japanese cook this in a different manner than is generally done in the West, resulting in a much more glutinous, fragrant dish. Daintiness is the characteristic of a truly Japanese meal. Japanese cooks take great pride in having the table and the food look appetizing and attractive. Although it is possible to get Western food in all the cities, the main native dishes to try are sukiyaki, which is a sort of beef stew cooked at the table; tempura, which is fresh prawns deep-fried; and chawan-mushi, which is chicken, pork and beef steamed with egg custard in a bowl. Fresh raw fish, broiled mushrooms, dried seaweed, bean curd are other native foods which are worth trying. Green tea is almost the national drink. Kabayaki, or broiled eels, is considered a great delicacy.
GAMBLING . . . There is horse racing (under Government control) from March to July and August to December. Tokyo’s race track is the Fuchu race course in the suburbs. The Yodo race course at Kyoto is the next largest in the country. Bicycle racing, also under Government control, is a year-round attraction.
LANGUAGE . . . Generally speaking, tourists will find that they will have no language difficulty in traveling throughout Japan.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Good. Readily available and of good quality. Service is fast; where laundry is concerned, it is possible to get overnight service; dry cleaning takes about two days.
LIQUOR . Sake, a rice wine, is the national drink. Japanese beer is generally recognized to be as good as any other beer produced. Other spirits are readily obtainable at all the leading hotels, bars and restaurants. One bottle of liquor may be brought into Japan.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are several hospitals in Tokyo as well as fully qualified American and British doctors.
MOTION PICTURES . . . There are motion picture theaters which show American and European films besides the native productions, which run over 250 a year. The Yuraku-za Hibiya Gekijo, Tokyo Gekijo, Marunouchi-Nikkatsu, Piccadilly Theater are the important downtown theaters in Tokyo showing pictures with original sound tracks. The Imperial Theater shows Cinerama films.
MUSIC . . . The Japanese are very much interested in all types of “Western” music. Five symphony orchestras, four of them in Tokyo, hold regular subscription concerts in season. The NHK Symphony Orchestra of the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation is especially popular. Choral groups give performances of religious works from time to time; instrumental and vocal recitals are daily occurrences. Frequent visits by foreign artists of international stature have enabled the Japanese to become acquainted with the highest present standards of artistry. The Fujiwara Opera Company, one of several, is the pioneer Japanese opera troupe and has appeared in the United States with its production of Madame Butterfly. Popular dances and jazz bands are numerous. Indigenous Japanese music, which is constructed on a tone scale