cigarettes are available at about 35 cents a pack. Cigars are available in limited supply. Customs allow 5 cartons of cigarettes (1 duty free) or 50 cigars or 1 lb. of tobacco.
CLIMATE . .. The climate of Japan is similar to the Middle West in the United States, although it seldom gets either as hot or as cold. However, you’ll need furs and heavy overcoats in winter and light clothes for summer. Japan is well worth a visit any time of the year, but spring and autumn are the best times.
CLUBS.. • Rotary and Lions Clubs are very active in Japan and it is possible to attend in all the main cities.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... There are many different customs in Japan. Automobile traffic keeps to the left. You must take your shoes off before entering a Japanese-style hotel, private home or temple. The Japanese never use soap in the bathtub. The custom is to lather themselves thoroughly, then rinse themselves, after which they enter the tub or big open bath, and soak themselves in the hot water.
COMMUNICATIONS . . . Airmail, radio-telephone and international telegraph service.
CURRENCY. . . The monetary unit is the yen. The rate of exchange is 360 yen to one United States dollar. Foreign currency is not legal tender in the stores or hotels, but can be readily exchanged at the banks for Japanese currency. No yen may be brought into or out of Japan but there is no limit on the amount of foreign currency that may be brought in. All currency, travelers’ checks, etc., must be declared on arrival. A maximum amount of yen equivalent to U.S. $100 may be converted back into foreign currency, provided it can be shown that the yen was acquired through proper channels. These conditions are subject to change, so check with your travel agent or the Pan American office.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Passport and except for visits of less than 72 hours, a visa. Vaccination certificate for smallpox for return to the United States. Cholera and typhus vaccination required of visitors from infected local areas. Foreign currency must be declared. Chinese-type articles are either prohibited or require a Certificate of Origin for entry into the United States. Consult the nearest U.S. Consul for latest requirements. Regulations change frequently, so check with Pan American in advance.
DRUG STORES . . . Aside from many Japanese drug stores, there is the fully stocked American Pharmacy and the Rexall Drug Co. both located in Tokyo, where you can obtain American products.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... 100 volts, a.c., in local hotels and homes. There is no need to use special transformer plugs.
FAUNA ... Boar, deer, pheasant, quail, snipe, wild geese.
FLORA . . . Cherry and plum blossoms, tea, persimmons, loquat, figs, and thousands of flowers including the lotus, wisteria, azalea, camellia, chrysanthemum (which forms the crest for the Imperial House). Japan is the land of flowers, and flower arrangement is taught