different from that of Occidental music, may seem enigmatic to the average Westerner, but the skill of the instrumental performers may still be appreciated.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . There are cafés and bars, but no night clubs as we know them. Some of the large hotels have dance floors and bands. And there are dance halls with Japanese taxi dancers. Ochaya, or tea houses, cater to hundreds of guests and the geisha, or professional entertainer, dances for the guests in what really amounts to a ritual dance.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Both black-and-white and color film are manufactured locally, while American brands may be obtained at leading stores. Prices for Japanese films are roughly equivalent to the film prices in America, but imported film may cost 30 to 40 per cent more. Black-and-white film processing service is available almost anywhere, many shops offering 24-hour service. The puzzling DPE sign hung out on many shops signifies that developing, printing and enlarging is done there.
RELIGION . . . There are about 24 Christian sects in Japan, including Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist, Episcopal and Congregational churches. The three major religions are Buddhism, Shintoism and Christianity.
RESTAURANTS . . . All major hotels have restaurants that serve international food. Besides these, the following are among the best in Tokyo: the Tokyo Kaikan Prunier for seafood, the Suehiro Steak House, Grill Rossini for steaks and chops, Hana-cho, Sukiya-ro for sukiyaki dinners, Ten-ichi for tempura dishes, Sun-ya for Chinese food. Prices vary widely, but in general range from about $3 to $5.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Japan is a shopper’s paradise. Ginza Street in Tokyo is the main shopping center. Principal and largest stores are: Mikimoto Pearl Store; Mitsukoshi, Matsuzakaya, Shiro-kiya, and Takashimaya, all department stores. There are, of course, many small shops.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Sumo, Japanese wrestling, judo exhibits, baseball (tremendously popular—games are played at the stadium at Meiji Shrine grounds and the Korakuen grounds), horse racing, swimming meets, football, tennis matches and archery. There are numerous annual meetings and tournaments.
SPORTS . . . There are golf, tennis, yachting, swimming, skiing, hunting, skating, fishing and bowling in various parts of the country.
THEATERS . . . Japan’s native theatrical art is centuries old. The theater in Japan is divided into Noh, Kabuki and puppet drama. The Noh, originally a religious dance in the fourteenth century, developed into a highly stylized dramatic form dealing with historical and Buddhist subjects. It is the classical drama of Japan. The actors wear masks arid elaborate costumes as they perform one of the 242 Noh plays which survive. There are six schools of Noh actors in Japan. The Kabuki—unlike the Noh, which was for the aristocracy—was for the people. Kabuki plays are similar to European dramas except the dialogue is accompanied by musical instruments or an orchestra, and