all the women’s roles are played by men. You can see Kabuki at the Kabuki Theater. An all-puppet theater, the Bunrakuza, is at Osaka. In season the Cherry Dance presentations at the theaters are worth seeing. There is modern Japanese theater, too; revues and light opera are popular and who could resist the Takarazuka Girls Troupe?
' TIME... 17 hours later than United States Pacific Standard Time.
TIPPING ... A bit less than at home.
TRANSPORTATION . . . There are modern tramways, streetcars, motor buses, and subways running through downtown Tokyo and Osaka. Suburban districts and nearby scenic spots are linked with the city by a network of high-speed electric trains. Taxis are readily obtainable as well as cars for hire. Rates are approximately the same as those in the United States. The Japanese National Railways and Japan Air Lines operate throughout the country.
WATER . . . Generally speaking, the water of Japan is perfectly safe to drink, but it is recommended that visitors use their own judgment and act accordingly.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Tortoise shell from Nagasaki, porcelain and cloisonné from Nagoya, lacquerware from Kyoto, silk, cultured pearls, embroidered kimonos and obis, pottery, china, ceramics, Japanese prints and woodcuts, wonderful silk damasks and a host of other souvenirs and things which only the Japanese can make. Tourists in possession of an already discontinued “Record of Cash in Hand” form furnished to them upon entry to Japan may buy the following articles free of tax at shops designated by the local revenue offices: pearls and articles decorated with pearls; articles made of precious metal or metals; ivory and cloisonné ware; furs; cameras, including parts or accessories; binocular and monocular telescopes, including the carrying cases; articles used for room decoration; lighters and other smoking articles provided they are made of metal or lacquer work; ceramic ware; and personal ornaments made of metal or lacquer work; woodblock prints; dolls.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Let the season of the year determine this. Tokyo is roughly like Washington, D.C. Japan as a whole is like the Middle West. In winter you’ll need furs, men will need overcoats. In spring, lighter weight clothes and in summer, cottons, light silks, sports clothes. Be sure to take a raincoat. You won’t need evening clothes unless you are being entertained by very important diplomatic society.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Tokyo. . . Everything is so different, so novel that just going out into the streets of Tokyo is a sightseeing tour in itself. You will want to see the Imperial Palace even though the inner enclosure is not open to the public. Walk or drive through Hibiya Park opposite the Imperial Hotel where the azaleas bloom in May and the chrysanthemums in November. In Shiba Park is the famous Zojo-ji Temple. The Palace Gardens, just a short distance from the temple, are quite lovely. Ueno Park, noted for its cherry blossoms, contains the National Museum, the Zoological Gardens, the Metropolitan Art Gallery, the