Imperial Library and a monument to General Grant, of all people. You will want to go shopping on Ginza Street, the main shopping thoroughfare. Sightseeing buses with English-speaking guides run twice daily and take you through the most fascinating and exciting parts of this metropolis.
Side Trips . . . There are packaged tours which cover the parts of Japan which are most interesting to foreign tourists. Starting at Tokyo you drive to Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park and Atami Hot Springs Resort. You pass through Kamakura, which is the site of the shrine of the Great Buddha, or Daibutsii. You may climb inside the Buddha to shoulder level. A short distance from the Buddha is Hachiman Shrine, one of the oldest temples in Japan, located in a grove of cherry trees. If you are touring you will proceed to Hakone Mountains to the Fujiya Hotel, one of Japan’s most elegant hotels at Miyanoshita, high in the mountains, or to the Hakone Hotel on the shores of Lake Hakone, from there on to Atami over the Ten Province Pass, from which you will get a wonderful view of Mt. Fujiyama. The Atami Hotel is good here.
The third day of the tour takes you by train to Kyoto, known as the “classic” city of Japan. The fabulous shrines and temples, “Teapot Lane,” the many bazaars and shops are famous. The Miyako Hotel overlooks the city from a hill. The Kyoto Station Hotel is located squarely in the city’s shopping district. You will visit the grounds of the old Imperial Palace and the Higashi-Hongan-ji, one of the most elaborate Buddhist Temples in the country. Heian Shrine in Okazaki Park is a famous Shinto shrine set in the midst of formal gardens. Once a year this is the site of festivals, and endless processions of Shintoists, dressed in costumes depicting various periods in history, pay homage there. On the fifth day, you leave Kyoto for Nara, which is considered the cradle of Japanese art and culture. Here is the Shoso-in, whose treasures are displayed very occasionally in Tokyo. Here, too, are wonderful examples of early Japanese architecture, the To-daiji Temple with its Hall of the Great Buddha, largest wooden structure in the world, housing the Great Buddha, which is over 53 feet high; Horyuji Temple, built in 607 a.d. containing many art treasures over a thousand years old, and many other unusual sights attract the tourist. You will see Nara Park, where tame deer roam at will, and wander down the vermilion corridors of the Kasuga Shrine, founded in 768 a.d. The Nara Hotel is the place here.
From Nara, you go by electric train to Osaka, site of the annual spring International Music and Arts Festival, where Shin-saibashi, the city’s shopping and amusement center, with its colorful bazaars, will enchant you. Osaka Castle, with walls formed of gigantic pieces of granite, and tiny bridges spanning the moat, is amazing. The Shiten-noji Temple and the Temmangu Shrine are here and you’ll find a theater, the Bunrakuza, devoted entirely to puppet shows. The New Osaka Hotel and International Fair Hotel offer fine Western-style accommodations. (Also check the availability of the brand new Osaka