Grand Hotel.) This tour takes about 5 days. But you can arrange to stay longer at any place you particularly like.
Another place of interest to go from Tokyo is Nikko, about 90 miles north of the capital. This is a mountain resort famous for its scenery and its 300-year-old Toshogu Shrine. The entire area is a national park. Just a few miles from Nikko at Lake Chuzenji are the Kegon Waterfalls. Here is the best trout fishing in Japan. There are good bathing and swimming, too. You will see the red-lacquered, crescent-shaped sacred bridge, which crosses the Daiya River. Here there is a five-storied pagoda considered to be the finest in Japan. The carvings of the world famous “Three Monkeys” are on the Sacred Stable beyond the Niomon Gate here. See also the Yomeimon Gate. The Nikko-Kanaya Hotel has a swimming pool and surprisingly enough, a skating rink.
You may go to Kobe, on the Inland Sea, 20 miles west of Osaka, a city which is backed by the Rokko Mountain Range. This city was in ruins after the war but is rapidly being rebuilt. Within half an hour of Kobe are the picturesque Nunobiki Waterfalls. You may drive to the summit of Mt. Rokko back of the city and play golf on an 18-hole golf course at the very top.
Take a train to Miyajima (Shrine Island), an excellent summer resort 12 miles southwest of Hiroshima, noted for its cherry blossoms and for its shrine built on supports running into the sea. The Main Shrine is connected with subsidiaries by galleries which stretch over the sea so that at high tide the Shrine seems to be afloat.. Sacred dances are performed here by Shrine maidens. Iwaso Inn and Kame-fuku Inn are the places to stay. You may, if you like, now go to Hiroshima, the atom-bombed city. There are guides available to take you on a conducted sightseeing tour.
You may also visit Nagoya, about 75 miles east of Kyoto, with its ruins of an ancient castle and a golden dolphin surmounting the donjon. Here is Atsuta Jingu, the second largest shrine in Japan. This is the center of Japanese porcelain making and the Noritake chinaware factory may be visited. This city is noted for its porcelain and cloisonné wares. The Hotel New Nagoya and Nagoya Kanko Hotel are the two most modern hotels. Japan’s largest national shrine, Ise Jingu, is an hour and a half away by electric train. Gifu, about fifty minutes away by electric train, is famous for its cormorant fishing on the River Nagara. At Gifu there is a Western-style Nagaragawa Hotel on the very banks of the river, besides many fine Japanese inns. The places mentioned above are open to tourists. Trips range from 3 to 30 days.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION ... In New York the Japan Tourist Association is at 10 Rockefeller Plaza, in San Francisco at 651 Market Street, and in Honolulu at 109 Kaiulani Ave., Honolulu 15. The Japan Travel Bureau has offices in New York, Los Angeles and the main office in Tokyo at 1 Marunouchi l-chome, Chiyodaku. There are offices in many other Japanese cities. The Tokyo office of Pan American is at 150 Marunouchi Building (Tel. 20-1021), across from the Central Railroad Station.