QENERAL INFORMATION
COOPERATING AIRLINES — Air France, Avianca Colombia National Airways, British Overseas Airways Corporation, British West Indian Airways, Capital Airlines, Caribbean Atlantic Airlines, Cubana Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Eastern Air Lines, KLM-Royal Dutch Airlines, Linea Aéropostal Venezolana, National Airlines, Northwest Orient Airlines, Trans-Canada Air Lines.
HOTELS —rooms at leading hotels with private bath wherever available. (We reserve the right to substitute comparable hotels for those listed, should conditions make this necessary or advisable.)
MEALS — American Plan (three meals per day) provided in Kingston, Ocho Rios, Montego Bay, Port-au-Prince, Martinique, Antigua, Barbados, Tobago.
Modified American Plan (breakfast and dinner) provided in St. Thomas.
Breakfast only provided in Trinidad, Curacao (Plan B).
European Plan (no meals included) in San Juan, Ciudad Trujillo, Havana, Curacao (Plan A), Caracas.
TRANSFERS — between airports and hotels, by car (except in the continental U.S.).
SIGHTSEEING — in late model automobiles, limited to four or five passengers per car, with English speaking guides. Entrance fees are included where required.
BAGGAGE — free baggage allowance is 66 lbs. per person on first-class flights and 44 lbs. on tourist-class flights. Excess baggage will be charged by the carrier at tariff rates at the airport.
TOUR PRICES DO NOT INCLUDE: Transportation between traveler’s home town and the gateway points where tours originate and terminate; insurance; tips to porters, guides, hotel staffs, laundry, wines, liquors and other expenses of a personal nature.
CONDITIONS AND RESPONSIBILITY
Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. In arranging travel accommodations or in rendering other service in connection therewith does so as agent for the individual desiring such travel accommodations upon the express condition and agreement that it shall not be liable for any injury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity, or expense arising from the use of any travel facilities, accommodations or services provided in connection with such Individual’s travel plan, nor for any injury, loss, damage, accident, delay, irregularity or expense arising from strikes, war, weather, quarantines, sickness, government restrictions or regulations, or from any act or omission of any individual, firm or corporation furnishing transportation, sightseeing, hotel accommodations or any other services in connection with such travel plan, or for any other cause whatsoever in connection therewith, nor for any additional cost or expense due to disruption or change of advertised schedules, rates or services, or for any other cause beyond its own control. All travel facilities, accommodations and services are subject to the laws of the respective countries involved in the travel plan and all claims for refunds for unused travel facilities, accommodations, services or otherwise must be made by the individual for whom the' travel plan is prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the individual. Arm or corporation furnishing such travel facilities, accommodations or services, and the liability of any such individual, firm or corporation is limited in accordance with the terms of their contracts. All costs, rates, tariffs and other charges are computed on the present value of foreign currencies as related to dollars of the United States of America (or dollars of the Dominion of Canada if the facilities of such travel plan are received and paid for in a Canadian office of Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. ) and accordingly are subject to adjustment at any time without prior notice. The acceptance of any travel plan or other service by any individual shall be deemed to constitute an acceptance of this limitation of liability or responsibility. —Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc.
All arrangements for shore accommodations, transportation and sightseeing are made by Ask Mr. Foster Travel Service, Inc. All arrangements for trans-Atlantic transportation are made by the airlines concerned or by the steamship lines concerned which companies are not to be held responsible for any act, omission or event during the time passengers are not on board their aircraft or ships. The passenger’s ticket, when issued, shall constitute the sole contract between the airline or steamship company and the purchaser of these tours and/or the passengers.
VALIDITY: May 16, 1959 to Dec. 15, 1959
20M-5-59 LBC
THE ROMANTIC CARIBBEAN ISLES
Then there’s Haiti, land of brilliant colors and the deep mystery of voodoo . . The Dominican Republic nearby shows you the contrast of cleanliness and ultra-modern efficiency against relics of centuries-old civilization where Columbus lived and is buried . . . Charming Curacao, where there are many shopf bargains and where the typically Dutch city of W llemstad will delight you . . . Caracas, spectacular city on the South American continent . . .
In Puerto Rico life is modern and sophisticated, the accommodations luxurious and the tropical countryside magnificent . . . and quaintness of the tiny Virgin Islands.
Whichever tour you choose, the fun starts the
moment you step aboard your flying Clipper and you can really relax in th? knowledge that you are flying the World’s Most Experienced Airl ne, with a tradition for fine meals aloft and all the other complimentary services that make your trip extra pleasant and extra comfortable.
Your independent
pre-arranged by experts, starts any day you all reservations are assured and you know the cos in advance.
These are truly carefree holidays.