CHILE
paradise. Hipodromo Chile starts first race at 07:00 a.m. runs to 13:00 p.m. Club Hipico starts at 13:00 runs to 18:30 p.m., with races every half hour on Sundays and holidays. Roulette and "punto y banca” played at the Casino de Vina del Mar (September 15-March 15th). Weekly Lotteries. Loteria de Concepcion and "La Polla de Beneficiencia” weekly. First prize about $120,000 dollars.
LANGUAGE . . . Spanish, of course, is the official language, but the majority of people in tourist centers speak and understand English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Hotels will furnish the information required and some of them have their own service. Two good dry-cleaning companies in Santiago are Lavanderia Manchester and Sandrico, which will give you 24-hour service for a 50 per cent surcharge. The ordinary service is five days, for suits and shirts.
LIQUOR ... The native wines are the thing to buy and drink. Tops are Santa Carolina, a white wine; Tarapaca, Zavala and Tocornal in the burgundy class. Some Chilean Rieslings are well-known in the States and there are many more brands available. Chilean champagnes are dry and splendid. All the wines are inexpensive.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . There are several hospitals, and English-speaking doctors are available. Two of the good ones in Santiago are Clinica Santa Maria and Clinica Alemana.
MOTION PICTURES . . . About all of the films shown in the States are shown in the Santiago theatres with the only difference of having titles in Spanish. The best theatres in Santiago are: Metro, Bandera, Central, Plaza, As tor, Windsor, Rex, Lido, Ducal and Gran Palace. If you care to see pictures in Spanish, you can go to the Teatro Santiago.
MUSIC . . . There are concerts at Santiago’s Teatro Municipal with native conductors and frequently big-name guest conductors from the United States and Europe. Guitar music is a staple of the country.
NIGHT CLUBS, CABARETS ... The Boite in the Hotel Carrera is very swank as well as the Hideaway; also the Tap Room