CHILE
and Waldorf. Others in Santiago are Charles; El Sarao, half an hour from the center of town, is an interesting old colonial farm house. For out-of-town spots try Las Brujas and Las Perdices.
RELIGION . . . Chile is a Roman Catholic country. There are other churches however.
RESTAURANTS AND BARS . . . Food in Chile is marvelous and cheap. In Santiago the hotels Carrera and Crillon have excellent Continental food. English is spoken at El Parrón, famous for meat and mixed grills, Chilean dishes. It also has an outdoor patio. In summer try the uptown Shorton Grill. The Waldorf has American and French cuisine, a good orchestra. El Escorial for continental food; also the Nuria. The Chiaranda is an excellent restaurant specializing in Italian food. El Sarao is an old Chilean inn 20 minutes’ drive from the center of the city. Also El Danubio Azul, Langen’s Bar, El Santiago, Shorthorn Grill, and Mervilles for native food. El Polio Dorado specializes in chicken and beef served in a typical Chilean atmosphere. The Parrilla de Vananáo for barbecues.
SHOPS AND STORES . . . Among the best stores in Santiago are Los Gobelinos, Falabella, Almacenes Paris, Casa Garcia, Rosenblitt, Casa Muzard, Flano and Ville de Nice. Chilean Arts, one block from the Carrera, is a new and excellent store for Chilean craftsware. Stores are closed Saturday afternoons and all the feast days; during the week they are open from 9:30 to 12:30 and 3:00 to 7:00.
SPECTATOR SPORTS ... In Santiago there are two race tracks, Hipódromo Chile and Club Hípico, one of the show places of South America. Pari-mutuel betting. Both operate on Sundays and holidays. There is also racing at Viña del Mar during their summer. Here the Derby, a big social event, is held every year. Soccer is favorite sport and there are games throughout the summer season. Visit the Estadio Nacional where the football games are held. There are ski tournaments in the Chilean Andes and in the ski resorts near Santiago. SPORTS . . . This is the one country in South America where sports take precedence over almost everything else, including sightseeing.