CHILE
Skiing . . . From June through September skiing in Chile is the finest in the world. From Santiago you travel by rail or auto to the area of deep snow in just a few hours. Here you’ll find the most famous ski resorts in South America. The ski slopes are gentle or swift as you prefer them and there is a choice for every skier’s ability.
Portillo is the ski center of the country. Special ski trains take you in 5 hours from Santiago 9,300 feet to the Hotel Portillo, which is an eight-story building, including a movie theatre, night club, central heating and a hospital. At Portillo there are magnificent trails, tows, chair lifts and a 9-mile ski run. Ski from the door of the hotel to the chairlift. Some of the top instructors in the world are on hand during the season. Try a one-day excursion to nearby Christ of the Andes, with skiing all the way back to the hotel.
The ski center of Farellones is 32 miles from Santiago. Accommodations available in refugios and private lodges. Two miles from Farellones is La Parva.
Fishing . . . Iquique in the north of Chile is considered the world’s finest fishing ground for broadbill swordfish (albacora), striped marlin, yellowfin tuna and oceanic bonito. The best season for deep-sea fishing at Iquique is from March through August. If you prefer fresh water angling the streams and lakes are full of trout. The season for fresh-water fishing is from October 15 to April 15.
Other Sports . . . Favorite sport of the Santiago social set is wild-dove shooting near Santiago. Tennis, golf, riding, swimming, polo and skin diving are all possible in and around Santiago. The Prince of Wales Country Club has a good golf course. Los Leones Golf Club also has a fine course. Cards are needed. The Polo Club has tennis courts and a swimming pool.
THEATRES ... In Santiago the Atelier, the Petit Rex, the Satch, the Antonio Varas, and the Municipal, which also has musical performances. All plays in Spanish.
TIME . . . One hour later than United States Eastern Standard Time.