CHILE
days rates for long distance phone calls to the States are cheaper.
CURRENCY . . . The monetary unit is the Escudo written with the E. The rate of exchange is about E 1.05 to the dollar, but check first- because exchange rates fluctuate frequently.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS for United States citizens and documents required . . . Passport, vaccination certificate, health certificate are required. No visa required for U.S., and for tourists of countries with which Chile has diplomatic relations. Tourist cards issued gratis to U.S. citizens and are valid for 90 days. You may bring in all articles for personal use. No restrictions on cameras and small restrictions on liquor (about 2 bottles per person). 500 cigarettes and 2 tins of tobacco allowed duty free.
DRUG STORES . . . Practically no American products are available in Chilean drugstores.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... 220 volts, A C.
FLORA . . . Flowers are abundant; a great variation in all the length of the territory. There are some exclusively national specimens in the south where you will find some unexplored woods. Copihue, one of the most beautiful specimens of Chilean flora, is the national flower.
FOOD . . . Sea food is famous in Chile; lobster dishes are wonderful. Try caldillo de congrio, a fish soup. Crab called jaibas; a variety of baby cray fish called langostinos; shrimp called camarones. Chupe de Mariscos is superb shellfish plate. Chupe de locos is an abalone soup. Congrio and Corvina are delicious fish to suit every taste. Swordfish steaks are excellent. There is, of course, excellent and inexpensive beef here, too. The national dishes are in the highly spiced category. Try Cazuela de ave—rich chicken soup with green vegetables cooked in broth. Pancho Villa dish made of local delicious Bayo beans cooked with chorizos, pungent smoked sausages and fried eggs. Pastel de choclo, fresh green corn stew with ground-up meat and vegetables. Humitas must be tasted; hot tamales to us. Empanadas, meat pies, vary in every native restaurant. Desserts are cool and imaginative. Pineapple with champagne, for instance, is one favorite.
GAMBLING ... If you are fond of horse racing Santiago is a