CHILE
are excellent restaurants in addition to those in the hotels. Good new restaurant is the Chez Gerald. For Italian food, San Marcos; and for lunch, Los Lilenes on the road to Concon.
The Casino is world famous. It is municipally run and thousands of people can be found at the gaming tables, fourteen of roulette and nineteen of punto y banca (chemin de fer). Hours of operation 6 to 9 P.M. and 10 P.M. to 3 A.M. from September 15 to March 15. There are also a cabaret theatre, a Boite and a large dining room surrounded by magnificent gardens.
Other points of interest are Parque Vergara and Parque del Salitre. Take a ride along the sea to Concon, a beach resort about twenty minutes by car from Viña del Mar. There are good restaurants enroute.
There are races every Sunday during summer at the Sporting Club and good golf at the Granadilla Country Club. Viña del Mar is extremely smart. Wear your newest, most chic clothes. Rates for minimum single room at hotels are about seven dollars a day. European Plan, varying with rates of exchange.
Chilean Lake Country . . . The Chilean Lake Country is one of the most picturesque lake regions anywhere. It’s a land of magnificent scenery and fine sports. You can tour the lake country by train, bus, and boat . . . traveling south from Santiago, Pucon is probably your first stop on a typical itinerary. It is on Lake Villarrica, which offers incredibly good rainbow trout and brown trout fishing. Villarrica volcano is 9,000 fear high and wears a snow crown. The Hotel Pucon here is fine. New hotel at Pucon, Anturnalal, marvelous for good fishing and rest.
Traveling on by train, you reach Osorno—one of the most beautiful towns and volcanos on your route. It rises in a perfect cone on the edge of a placid lake. Best hotel is- the Gran Hotel Osorno, quite moderate in price. The luxurious Puyehue Springs Hotel which was destroyed by fire in 1957 is now open again. For latest information consult any Travel agent or Panagra office.
Leave Osorno by bus and drive to Enseñada through scenery very much like that of the blue-grass regions of Kentucky, or to