CHILE
fort in Chile, it is open to the public from 7:00 A.M. till midnight, and can be reached by car. There are gardens and a small museum. Cerro San Cristobal rises about 1,000 feet above the city. Take a funicular to the summit, from which you get a magnificent view; you can lunch here at the Restaurant Casino. The road to the top is lined with gardens and promenades. Be sure to include a visit to Government House, La Moneda, the residence of the President; well worth seeing. The beautiful Avenida O’Higgins, best known as the Alameda, is the widest and longest street in the city, with pedestrian walks in the center. The main square is the Plaza de Armas.
Try to get invited to a jundo, or farm, for a sample of Chilean life, where your host may stage a rodeo for you. Chilean rodeos are different from American ones. You should try to see one if you are around in November or December. The cowboys, called huasos, play guitars and the songs are very similar to our Western ones. The national dance of Chile, the cueca, is danced to guitar music.
Valparaiso . . . Second city of the Republic of Chile and principal port on the West Coast of South America, founded in 1536 by Juan de Saavedra.
Valparaiso is an important commercial and tourist port. Its picturesque topography makes it unforgettable. The semi-circular bay is crowned by tall hills, all covered with buildings which at night shine with their myriad of lights.
The downtown area is modern and the public walks and streets are beautiful. Prat is the best hotel. Restaurant Castillo Pornoni is excellent, especially for sea food. Restaurant typically Chilean is the El Bote.
Vina del Mar . . . The famed beach resort is about 90 miles from the capital and next to the port of Valparaiso. It is reminiscent of the Riviera, like Monte Carlo, Juan les Pins and Nice. The season at this popular resort is January through March.
The Hotel Miramar, open all year, has a private swimming pool and beaches, and also facilities for sea bathing as well as Turkish baths. The O’Higgins is also a first-class hotel, older •nd somewl larger, also f'-st-class is the San Martin. There
o