
for Your Post-war Vacations
Sport Centers
Skiing in Argentina, Chile and Bolivia from July to October. Mountaineering throughout Mexico, Central America, and the South American Andes.
Deep sea and lake fishing and hunting. Both coasts of Mexico and Central America; Lake Nicaragua; the West Indies; both coasts of South America. Big-game hunting in jungles and mountains.
Beaches for swimming, sheltered ivaters for sailing, throughout the Caribbean, Mexico, Central and South America.
Golf, tennis and horseback riding at all principal points.
Health Resorts and Spas
Brazil, Pocos de Caldas, Sao Lourenzo, Caxambu, Araxa, Cambuquira, Lam-bari in the state of Minas Geraes; also in states of Sao Paulo, Baia, Goyaz, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catharina.
Chile, Term as de Colina, Apoquindo, Termas de Panimavida, Termas de Chilian, Puyehue, and others.
Argentina, The Cordoba Hills resorts, Carhue, Puente del Inca, Rosario de la Frontera. And elsewhere.
Archeological Sites
The valley of Mexico City, Yucatan, Oaxaca in Mexico. Chan-Chan, Pachaca-mac and Cajamarquilla, Cuzco and Macchu Picchu, in Peru. Tiahuanaco, in Bolivia.
The islands of the West Indies with their famous cities and the coasts of North and South America are full of the memories of the days of the corsairs and buccaneers to which has been added the picturesqueness of Caribbean life.
The Guianas, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Argentina offer, in addition to large coastal cities, explorations off the beaten track along mighty rivers such as the Amazon, and great waterfalls such as Iguassu and Kaieteur.
Mexico and Guatemala have amazing contrasts in jungle and mountains, plus local color derived from Indian civilizations.
The Central American Republics have a wide range of climate and terrain, with untold fertility of the land. Renowned for the friendly hospitality of their inhabitants.
Paralleling the Pacific Ocean for 3,000 miles like a mighty rampart are the highest mountains of the Western Hemisphere with their treasures of archeology, picturesque Indian life, and fabulous mining treasures.
In southern Chile and Argentina, the visitor will marvel at the beauty of volcanoes and lakes unsurpassed by any others in the world.

WÊÊ
33