SHEEP
CINCHONA
COPfig;
CATTLE
TUNOSTEt
WHEAT.-;
CATTLE
TUNGSTEN
SHEEP
CATTLE
CORN
QUEBRACHO
COTTON
SALT
GOLD
CATTLE
QUEBRACHO
O RANGES
VERBA
LOGGING

CORN
ORANGES
URUGUi
a*“
ars*
HUH BONA BANANAS
<§) Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
Pa RAG I
UAY...FERTILE LAND OF OPPORTUNITY .
The first major move for independence in Hispanic America came in Paraguay in 1721, although actual independence was not attained until ninety years later. Sebastian Cabot in 1526 explored this area and eleven years later Asuncion was founded.
Like Bolivia, Paraguay is land-locked. Nevertheless, Paraguay enjoys good air and water communications with her neighbors. Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers connect the capital city of Asuncion with Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro, while Panair do Brasil (Brazilian affiliate of Pan American) connects Asuncion and various Brazilian cities.
Numerous rivers irrigate Paraguay and provide that nation with commercial waterways to the sea. River steamers carry a large share of Paraguay’s commercial products down the Paraguay and Parana Rivers into world trade channels. Although 1,000 miles from the sea, Asuncion, the capital, is an important port. Most of Paraguay’s trade has been with Argentina.
The extensive plains are excellent for raising livestock and crops, and luxuriant forests grow on the mountain slopes of the East. The resources of the grassy, sparsely-settled Chaco region to the West, acquired in negotiations in 1938, remain to be fully investigated. This newly-acquired territory has made Paraguay’s area 174,854 square miles and population 1,040,420.
Chief exports are beef products, hides, tobacco, long-fiber cotton, yerba mate (tea), timber, oranges, quebracho wood extract (for tanning), and vegetable oils.
Seventy per cent of the world’s supply of petitgrain, an oil distilled from orange leaves and used as a basis for flavoring and perfumes, comes from Paraguay.
Major industries are lacking, partially due to need for more machinery. Manufacturing is at present limited to such consumer needs as shoes, furniture and food products. Principal imports are: textiles, foodstuffs, hardware, wines and spirits, pharmaceutical goods, automobiles, ready-made clothing and hats. Mining (of quartz, limestone, marble, graphite, iron, manganese, copper, mercury and semi-precious stones) remains to be fully exploited.
In order to develop resources, the Paraguay Government has encouraged immigration, with favorable results. In addition, with the cooperation of experts from the U. S., a survey is being made to lay plans for the development of Paraguay’s industries.
Population (smallest of any South American nation) is centered mainly around Asuncion and the towns extending southeastward from the capital. Concepcion, north of Asuncion, is the center of the timber, cattle, yerba mate and flour industries.
B
OLIVIA.a."TIN ROOF" OF THE WORLD • In the
days of the Spanish explorers, Bolivia was, understandably, known as "Alto (high) Peru.” Much of Bolivia is high—the western part of Bolivia, the altiplano (high plain) averages 12,000 feet altitude, and numerous peaks tower over 20,000 feet.
The chief wealth of Bolivia, past and present, lies in her high mountains, and their great reserves of tin, tungsten, bismuth, antimony, silver, zinc, and lead. Of 1941 exports 98% consisted of tin and other minerals.
One of the world’s two known sources of pure copper (as distinguished from copper ores requiring smelting) is near La Paz. Nine-tenths of Bolivia’s copper production is centered here.