Canned' ■ruvian tv,
Long-staple cotton awaits shipment at the
Tin is made electrolytically in this
if»»
Parinas and the oil port of Talara, although potential sources appear to exist in the trans-Andean region.
Chief commercial, financial, industrial and distribution center of Peru is the capital, Lima, ancient "City of Kings”, with a population of 523,000; around it revolves the life of fully a third of the nation. Eight miles away is the port city of Callao. Together these two cities make up the most-important manufacturing center, with numerous factories.
POWER INCREASE PLANNED • Although Peru already ranks third in South America in per capita use of power (only Argentina and Chile exceed her) plans for greater power output have been made.
Three key hydroelectric projects (to provide irrigation as well as power) will, it is thought, furnish all inhabited sections where industry is practicable with enough low-cost power.
An industrialization program for a large area north of Lima has been undertaken, to include steel mills, an ammonia plant, and cement, nitric acid, and zinc plants utilizing such power.
Peru lies in the heart of the high Andes ranges. The average height of the mountains in Peru is 17,000 feet! Much of mountainous Peru is more than 12,000 feet high, higher than Mt. Hood, Oregon, one of the highest peaks in the Northwestern U. S. Here are found the great variety of minerals, and the herds of llamas, alpacas, and vicunas from which comes a highly-prized wool for textiles.
To tap the mineral wealth of this mountain fastness, "the economic pivot of the nation,” it was necessary, before the age of air transport, to build the highest standard-gauge railroad in the world, at one point three miles high!
Stoi
»REHOUSE OF METALS • Copper, silver, gold, bismuth, vanadium, tungsten, molybdenum, lead, antimony, and zinc are dug from these mountains, a natural storehouse of metals and minerals. Peru is one of the chief bismuth-producing countries of the world, and for almost a quarter century more than half the world’s vanadium output was Peru’s. In the three years, 1938-40, metals and minerals (including petroleum) accounted for 60% of the value of Peruvian exports.
Chief cities in this area are Arequipa, 750 miles south of Lima, the distributing center for the 2,500,000 inhabitants of southern Peru, and Cuzco, picturesque mountain community, once the center of Inca power.
However, it is the little-known selva region (25% of Peru lying east of the mountains) that many consider Peru’s land of promise.
Here the Amazon has some of its main headwaters. This river is so mighty that it is navigable for 2,300 miles, making Iquitos, a Peruvian city, and chief center of this vast area, an inland port for the Atlantic! For, because of the intervening Andes, it has actually been easier for Iquitos to do its trading with Brazil and the Atlantic than with western Peru.
Chiclayo, fastest-growing commercial city in its vicinity, and
Business houses surround Lima’s San Martin Square,
Andean llamas, important as beasts of burden, also yield wool.
center of numerous large sugar and rice plantations, is the gateway to this northeastern Amazon Basin.
About 40 commercial species of hardwoods grow in Peru, many in this trans-Andean region.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS • In peacetime, Peru has imported principally machinery and supplies for mining, industries, and agriculture; hardware, vehicles and other transportation equipment; electrical equipment; cotton, wool, silk, and rayon manufactures; foodstuffs, drugs, dyes and chemicals, and metals and manufactures.
Normally, two-thirds of Peru’s exports have been cotton, oil, copper, and sugar. Other products shipped abroad have included animal products and precious metals.
Since the days of the colonists, Peru’s economy has been geared to agriculture and mining. Later, forestry too gained importance. Between 80% and 85% of Peruvians continue to depend on agriculture. The most important products are: cotton, sugar cane, rice, coffee, wheat, corn, flax, beans and potatoes. From forests come rubber, commercial woods, and cinchona bark (for quinine).
The expansion of local industry has been favored by the variety of raw materials available and (in most localities) by a favorable climate. Particularly since 1930 has industrial development been stimulated, principally in the fields of textiles (cotton, wool, rayon and linen), foodstuffs, tobacco products, shoes, leather, cement, iron and steel products, soap, pharmaceuticals, glass, paper, cardboard, silverware, etc. There are approximately 800 manufacturing plants, but as recently as 1939, 49% of imports were manufactured products.
Air TRANSPORT AIDS DEVELOPMENT • Air
service to Peru is furnished by Pan American-Grace Airways, affiliate of Pan American World Airways, which provides direct international facilities. There are also a number of domestic lines furnishing interior services. The economic development of the country has been stimulated by the ease with which airplanes can carry commercial representatives and technicians and transport vital goods, in considerable volume.
