PHOSPHAT«
COAL
COFFEE
COCONUTS
PETROLEUM
COTTON
COATS
SUGAR
• PETROLEUM
:OFFEE
ASPHALT
RUBBER
CATTLE
PETROLEUM
WI/-ÍE
CATTLE
golo
IRON
SILVER
CATTLE
RUBBER
n m w
ISnHHHp
Souti	rfmentca
^¿nttydace ^needottt
Venezuela’s main industry is oil. Her economy is geared to the export of vast quantities of this ''liquid gold” and she ships more petroleum than any other nation in the world, with the exception of the U. S. She is famous as the nation ivith no external debt.
The first permanent European settlement in South America was ivhat is now Cumana, Venezuela. From this historic land (352,000 square miles in ivhich live three and one-half million Venezuelans), explored by Columbus and Amerigo Vespucci, came Simon Bolivar, the Great Liberator, to lead the fight for freedom in northern South America.
Venezuela is today a nation largely dependent upon foreign trade; tomorroiv, however, by encouraging agriculture and diversifying and expanding her industries she hopes to help meet her own needs.
A $100,000,000 modernization program in public health, transportation, etc., started by the Government in 1938, is proving effective in raising economic standards and in opening up new and promising areas.
VENEZUELA IS A NATION both actually and potentially rich. Her actual (and known) riches lie mainly in her boundless oil fields, principally around, and under, Lake Maracaibo. Her potential riches are in the mineral and timber resources of her mountains and selva (jungle forests) and in the agricultural potentialities of her llanos (river plains), not, as many used to believe, in the buried treasures of this part of the Spanish Main.
Venezuela’s oil became world-famous in 1922, when El Baroso No. 2 well erupted and for nine days gushed a fountain of oil sixty feet into the air. In an average year 187,000,000 barrels of oil have been pumped from Lake Maracaibo (largest lake in South America) and from lesser-known fields around the mouth of the great Orinoco River system.
From the lake, shallow-draft tankers carry the oil some 250 miles to refineries on the Dutch West Indies islands of Curacao and Aruba. From there the refined petroleum moves in a steady stream of big ocean-going tankers to world markets.
M OST OF OIL TO EUROPE • Even before the war about sixty per cent of Venezuela’s oil went to Europe; of that amount England received approximately half.
Thousands of oil wells are located in a strip bordering Lake Maracaibo, just offshore, and in orderly rows far out over the lake itself. The oil is heavy asphalt-base, as is that from the