® Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
JAMAICA • Largest and most valuable of the British West Indies is Jamaica, an island with 1,241,000 inhabitants in an area of 4,450 square miles.
Most of the exports of sugar, logwood, coffee, bananas, rum, coconuts, ginger, cocoa, etc. pass through the capital and chief port, Kingston, served by Pan American World Airways. The buccaneer, Sir Henry Morgan, once ruled the island.
In the 1780’s, Jamaica was one of the richest of Great Britain’s colonial possessions, far more important (because of sugar exports) as a source of revenue than the struggling colonies of eastern North America. Coffee, then bananas, succeeded sugar as the most important export and bananas now make up 50% to 60% of normal exports. Economic stability is aided by the widespread cultivation of subsistence food crops.
Haiti • Haiti is unique in that it is (1) the only French-speaking republic in the Western Hemisphere and (2) the most-densely populated of the Latin American Nations. More than 3,000,000 people live in Haiti’s 10,204 square miles.
The Windward Passage, between Haiti and Cuba, is the most direct water route from the eastern seaboard of the U. S. to the Panama Canal.
Capital and commercial center, handling about half the nation’s trade, is Port-au-Prince, on the West Indies routes of Pan American World Airways.
Coffee accounts for about 70% of exports, followed by cotton (principally long-staple), sugar, hemp and bananas. Partially because manufactured goods can normally be imported from nearby sources, principally the U. S., local manufacturing development has not been pushed. The labor supply is ample, but certain raw materials must be imported.
Practically all Haitian food requirements, with the notable exception of fish and wheat flour, can be produced locally.
Dominican republic • occupying the eastern
two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, on which Haiti too is located, are the 19,332 square miles and 1,768,000 inhabitants of the Dominican Republic.
Five-sixths of the population lives in rural areas, since the economy is predominantly agricultural, with sugar, cocoa and coffee the chief exports, generally in that order. Livestock raising and other pursuits are encouraged, as is selective immigration, to build a more-broadly-based economy.
Cotton textiles were the principal import in 1943, and the bulk of these (as of imports in general) came from the United States.
First permanent European settlement in the New World was what is now the modern port city and capital, Ciudad Trujillo, Pan American World Airways junction point.
Increased air traffic recently necessitated the enlargement of the airport near Ciudad Trujillo. Plans have been discussed for the inauguration of a domestic airline.