BOLIVIA • PARAGUAY • URUGUAY
One of the richest ore bodies in the world (containing silver, tin, bismuth and tungsten) is found in the conical mountain at Potosi. From this one mountain, between 1544 and 1600, came about half the world production of silver. Although mines under Spanish rule produced more than $2 billion worth of gold in the 30-year period beginning with 1540, their present importance is limited. It is Bolivia’s tin supply that is the nation’s chief source of wealth. In a typical year the nation produced 95% of the tin output of South America, and tin accounted for 70% to 75% of total value of Bolivian exports.
Lowlands make up two-thirds of Bolivia. Those of northern Bolivia contain headwaters of the mighty Amazon and the yungas, deep, descending valleys lined with dense forests. Here a certain amount of sugar, wild rubber and cinchona bark (for quinine) is produced.
Southeastern plains are part of the great lowland area known as the Gran Chaco. The growing petroleum industry is situated mainly in new fields in southeastern Bolivia. Geologists say one of the world’s largest undeveloped oil sources lies here.
Except in certain localities Bolivia is not densely-populated. About 3,426,000 persons inhabit an area of 537,000 square miles. Most Bolivians live on the high plateau which stretches for 500 miles. Possibly only Tibet ranks with this part of Bolivia as among the highest inhabited regions of the world. La Paz, the capital, is the highest big city in the world.
Although Bolivia has no seacoast it has been granted commercial access to the Pacific by Chile and Peru. Lake Titicaca (125 miles long, 75 miles wide), highest navigable lake in the world, is a waterway for trade and travel with Peru.
Bolivia is well situated with regard to air services. Pan American-Grace Airways serves Bolivia with both north-south and east-west “transcontinental” routes. Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, associated with Pan American-Grace Airways, operates domestically.
A three-fold economic program has been undertaken, for highways, transportation, oil and agricultural development. The last, designed to make Bolivia self-sufficient in foods, includes food-processing plants (70% of manufactured goods are food stuffs, beverages and textiles) and growing of crops.
U
RUGU AY...BUSY AND PROG R ESS IVE • Smallest, but most-densely populated nation in South America is Uruguay. More than 2,146,000 persons inhabit an area of 72,153 square miles. Soil and climate, combined with Uruguay’s well-known democratic traditions, make this nation important in world affairs.
Public ownership of banking, insurance, electric power, marine transportation, etc., is the practice, and much social legislation introduced in the U. S. in the last dozen years was already law in Uruguay. For a considerable period, the largest single item in the national budget was for education.
Montevideo, capital and commercial center of the nation, has about one-fourth of the population of all of Uruguay. It is the
Paraguay’s Palace of Congress in Asuncion.
La Paz, Bolivia.
Legislative Palace in Montevideo, Uruguay.
hub of numerous radiating sea, air and land routes and is the port through which the bulk of Uruguay’s international commerce moves. More than 5,000 vessels annually enter the harbor. Pan American World Airways serves Montevideo on the main route between Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.
According to the tradition, the name Montevideo was given by one of Magellan’s lookouts who called out in Portuguese “Monte vid’eu” (I see a mountain) as the explorer’s ship approached the coast.
The keys to Uruguay’s economy are the broad, rolling pastures and the unusually lush grasses that grow on them. The chief commercial activity of Uruguay is, therefore, ranching rather than agriculture. Almost 70% of Uruguay’s fertile acres are devoted to pasturage. Nowhere else in South America, it has been claimed, can one find a comparable concentration of economic interest in a single activity.
The chief export of Uruguay has been wool. In a typical prewar year (1937) $30 million worth of wool was shipped abroad. Other important products are beef and mutton, hides, fertilizers, corn, wheat, citrus fruits, rice, oats and linseed oil. Normally, only Argentina exceeds Uruguay in Latin American meat exports.
Main imports are: chemical products, textiles, foodstuffs (sugar, yerba mate, beans, edible oils, vegetables), construction materials (structural metals, cement), coal and petroleum products, motor vehicles and agricultural machinery.
There is considerable trade and travel between Montevideo and Buenos Aires, 125 miles across the Rio de la Plata.
On that fifth of the land that is given to agricultural crops, wheat, corn and flax are, in that order, the most important products, and all are exported.
There are numerous textile plants (in some of which garments and cloth are made from native-grown wool), flour mills, wineries, and meat-processing plants.
One of the highest rates of per capita purchasing power in Latin America is found in Uruguay and there is a generally high standard of living. Considerable trade is carried on with the U. S. In 1940 Uruguay outstripped all other South American nations with a 117% increase in trade with the United States.
Battery of drills in the famous tin mines of Catavi, Bolivia.
Hidesm are stacked in a Montevideo, Uruguay, tannery.
River boats line the busy waterfront of Asuncion, Paraguay’s capital.