Panama hats 5%. Still other exports have been kapok, cinchona, rubber, hides, and mangrove bark and extracts.
For some time cacao (source of cocoa and chocolate) has been the principal normal export of Ecuador. Cacao beans, spread out to dry in the streets (particularly in Guayaquil), lend color for sightseers and fragrance to the atmosphere.
Chief SOURCE OF BALSA • Rubber production, once of importance to Ecuador, as it was to Brazil, has again been stimulated, this time by the requirements of the war.
Ecuador has been the United Nations’ chief supplier of balsa, valued for its exceptional lightness, and used in planes and life-rafts; 90% of the world’s supply comes from Ecuador.
Even before the colonial period Indians built rafts of this wood; today farmers living along the Guayas River (largest river on the western coast of South America) and its tributaries build balsa rafts to carry their produce. These they then float to market in Guayaquil, where they also sell the logs from the raft. Guayaquil’s sawmills cut these into valuable lumber.
Most Panama hats come from Ecuador (particularly from the vicinity of Chone, Jipijapa, Cuenca, and Montecristi). The art of weaving these hats, mainly at home, from straw obtained from a native forest scrub palm, is an ancient one.
Cinchona trees, from which comes quinine to combat malaria, are native to Ecuador. The country has become an important producer of the bark from this tree, and is, with Colombia and Bolivia, a leading producer.
Six times as buoyant as cork is kapok, obtained from the pods of the ceiba tree and used in life preservers.
Local industrial development has been concentrated on production to fill a large share of domestic needs for cotton textiles, smaller quantities of rayon and wool fabrics (from imported yarns), and on shoes, leather, cement, beverages, soap, furniture and buttons.
Aviation UNITES NATION • Topographical and
climatic conditions, plus lack of adequate surface transportation facilities, are a few of the reasons why the development of aviation in Ecuador has been fostered and why it has been of great value in uniting otherwise-isolated sections.
International air connections to Colombia and Peru (and thence to all parts of Latin America) are provided by Pan American-Grace Airways, affiliate of Pan American World Airways. Domestic air service is provided by Aerovias del Ecuador-Panagra.
The Government has fostered the extension of air routes to connect the lowlands to the mountainous regions. Before the days of aviation, thousands of mules and burros, plodding crude mountain trails, were the only means of transport.
Two mighty ranges of the Andes parallel one another north to south through the heart of Ecuador, with many peaks over
16,000	feet. (The world’s highest active volcano, Cotopaxi, is
Workers sift, tamp, and pack cinchona bark for shipment.
Pan American-Grace Airways planes daily serve commercially-important Guayaquil.
Plaza de la Independencia, in Quito, world’s second-highest capital.
19,500 feet; Chimborazo is 21,000 feet and snow-mantled.) Most Ecuadorians live in valleys high in these mountains, at
7.000	to 10,000 feet altitude.
Capital ancient and lofty • Quito, the
capital, and once center of the Kingdom of Quito, is 9,350 feet high—the second-highest capital in the world (La Paz, Bolivia, is highest). By legend it is 1,500 years old and it is known as the "dean of South American capitals.” In the 1400’s it was conquered first by the Caras, then by the Incas.
The latter built a thousand-mile mountain trail to link Quito, which they made their northern capital, with the seat of their power at Cuzco, Peru. Over this moved commodities of early commerce as well as swift runners with communications. Today, airplanes fly the same route with valuable cargoes and important mail and passengers 30 times as fast as a runner.
It was at Quito that Ecuador’s final independence was obtained in the Battle of Pichincha (May 24, 1822), a battle unusual in that it was fought on the slopes of a volcano, at
12.000	feet altitude, watched by 50,000 people of Quito.
The third city of importance is Cuenca (40,000 population)
in the South. From this area come hides, cinchona, tropical produce, and gold, while copper, zinc, jasper, and marble are found nearby. Cuenca is an important center for the "Panama” straw hat industry.
From Loja, south of Cuenca, active trade is carried on with Peru. Valuable woods, cinchona, coffee, cotton, barley, sugar cane, potatoes, and fruits are produced here.
Ambato is gradually developing as an industrial center. Central location has aided the manufacturing here of cotton and woolen goods, leather articles, buttons, flour and furniture.
To an even greater extent than in many neighboring nations the domestic business of Ecuador centers in the colorful local markets. Most domestic trade flows from the mountain communities to the commercial center of Guayaquil in the lowlands rather than toward Quito, the political center, itself in the mountains. Most of the life of this region is devoted to the raising of food crops for local consumption.
bl. Jrittt
1Sgest
Washing, bleaching, and drying hundreds of "Panama” hats at Cuenca.
Port.