times as many on industry as on mining. There are a number of large estates; two are each half as big as Rhode Island.
In 1942 a six-year agricultural development plan was launched. This plan has been linked with related projects: irrigation and power programs, trade, and resettlement.
Chile’s wide range of climates in an area of 286,396 square miles makes possible production of almost any crop. Excepting sugar, tea and coffee, practically all essential foodstuffs are domestically produced; agricultural products are an important export.
In the great Central Valley, 550 miles long and 30 to 50 miles wide, is 80% of the population, manufacturing, commerce and agriculture of Chile.
Vineyards here are world-famous for the excellence of their wines. More than $135,000,000 has been invested in this industry, employing 200,000. So good are these wines that in normal times 80% went to Europe, home of famous wines!
Nitrates from deserts • in 1809 nitrate was
discovered in the dry, trackless northern deserts and at first was used by Peruvians in making gunpowder.
After 1830, when Europe found nitrate useful as fertilizer, the importance of these deposits and of the area from which they could be extracted grew overnight.
Thousands of Chileans depend on the nitrate industry and between 1880 and 1930 royalties on nitrate production supplied an average of 43 per cent of Government revenues.
The discovery, during World War I, of a way to produce nitrogen synthetically had immediate and long-lasting effects.
Yet Chile remains the home of the world’s only commercial deposits of natural nitrate, and nitrates, copper and wool remain the leading exports.
World’s LARGEST COPPER MINE • Yet, in one
copper mine (the world’s largest) Chile is said to have one-quarter of the world’s reserves, while a second mine is credited with 10%. Chile has been known as the world’s foremost copper exporter and second copper producer (the U. S. being first in production but exporting less than Chile).
The known mineral reserves are among the largest in South America. Huge virgin reserves of sulphur as well as borax are thought to exist in Chile. Substantial quantities of lead, zinc, manganese, tungsten, mercury and cobalt are produced.
Of South American nations Chile stands second in gold production, fourth in silver output. In normal times mineral products account for 75% to 80% of total value of exports.
Industrialization promising • Thanks to
plentiful copper, coal, iron ore and water power, the outlook for industrialization seems encouraging. Iron ore reserves (25 or more deposits) are estimated at more than one billion tons, coal reserves at three billion tons.
By 1930 there were 8,600 manufacturing plants for cotton
Cloud-cloaked mountains form a backdrop for the skyline of Santiago, the capital.
La Moneda, imposing Government Palace in Santiago, called a gem of Spanish colonial architecture.
and woolen textiles, tannery products, paper, cement, tobacco, glassware, explosives, soaps, toilet goods, enamelware, lumber, chemical products, flour, sugar and other food products.
Figures for 1932 and 1936 (normal years) prove that Chile is increasingly able to supply her own needs. In 1932 imports were 46 per cent of total trade, in 1936 only 38 per cent.
Beautiful and progressive cities• Santiago,
capital, with 700,000 residents is considered next to Rio in the beauty of its natural setting. Second city in size and industrial importance is Valparaiso, progressive and well-equipped port city of 200,000, the seaport for Santiago and much of northern Chile. It is the largest and busiest port west of the Andes.
Between them, Santiago and Valparaiso share the chief industrial section of Chile.
Antofagasta is the northern port where copper and nitrates are loaded into ships from all parts of the world. Far to the South is Magallanes, southernmost city of the world.
rORESTS AND GRAZING LANDS • Extensive forest areas and much grazing land especially adapted to sheepraising are found in southern Chile.
Approximately $340,000,000 would be invested in a Government public works program planned for a six-year post-war period. Projects contemplated include transportation, water power and irrigation, harbor improvements, construction of Government buildings and housing settlements, plus recreational facilities. This program is designed in part to counteract any unfavorable fluctuations in foreign trade.
Aviation links chile to neighbors • one
of the highest air routes in the world is that flown regularly by Pan American-Grace Airways between Chile and Argentina.
Regular Pan American-Grace services are maintained to Peru and Bolivia (and beyond, through these and other Pan American routes, to all of Latin America and the U. S.).
Prom giant terraces steam shovels dig copper ore.
Huaso (cowboy) tends cattle in southern Chile’s lake district.