CENTRAL AMERICA
tl_ SALVADOR • El Salvador, although second smallest of the 20 Latin American Republics (13,176 square miles), is, next to Haiti, the most-densely populated (1,862,000 inhabitants).
El Salvador is closely connected to her neighbors (and to all the Americas) by Pan American World Airways.
Two mountain ranges traverse El Salvador, although the average width of the country is but 60 miles. On the mountain slopes and the valleys between these ranges are the agricultural products which give El Salvador much of her natural wealth.
Coffee, of exceptional quality, is the most-important single crop, and in the representative period 1928-1934 accounted for 92% to 95% of exports.
Gold and silver ores, sugar, rice, balsam, indigo and hene-quen fiber also are exported and, increasingly, attention is being directed to their production.
The principal import needs have been gasoline, iron and steel, textiles, cement, leather, paper, and wheat and flour. Of international commerce in 1940, the U. S. supplied 67% of imports and received 75% of El Salvador’s exports.
Manufacturing has been concentrated principally on such things as textiles, beverages and leather goods.
About 11% of El Salvador is forested. Among the commercial woods are cedar, mahogany, walnut and dye woods.
NlCARAGUA • Largest of the Republics of Central America (60,000 square miles) is Nicaragua, with 1,013,000 inhabitants. Nicaragua first was explored by Europeans when in 1519 an expedition from Panama, under Davila, pushed northward.
The western (Pacific) section, while only one-third of the nation’s area, is most highly developed and contains the bulk of the population, commerce and industry.
Numerous proposals have been made, from time to time, for a Nicaraguan Canal, to utilize the San Juan River, Lake Nicaragua and a series of locks (to be built) to the Pacific.
Coffee, bananas, gold, woods (mahogany, pine and cedar), raw cotton, hides, skins and sugar are, in order, the leading exports, with the first three by far most important (75% of all 1938 exports). Gold has at times jumped to first place.
Chief imports are textiles (mainly cotton goods), machinery, iron and steel, petroleum, gasoline, and chemical and pharmaceutical products. The U. S. from 1929 to 1939 took from half to three-fourths of exports by value and regularly has supplied more than half of imports.
Pan American World Airways serves Nicaragua at Managua, and domestic air service is furnished to outlying centers.
Pa NAM A • Located where the land of the Western Hemisphere is narrowest, the Isthmus of Panama early became a crossroads.
Here in 1513 Vasco Nunez de Balboa hacked his way through dense jungle for a first view of the Pacific. Here in the 1840’s California-bound gold-seekers tramped or rode overland to avoid the months-long sea voyage ’round the Horn.
Panama was then (and is today) a trans-shipment and distributing center. Today a network of sea and air routes centers
on Panama. Pan American World Airways and two of its affiliates (Pan American-Grace Airways and Ur aba, Medellin and Central Airways) serve Panama, an air junction point.
Perhaps fully five-eighths of Panama’s fertile 33,667 square miles remains to be fully settled and made commercially profitable. However, on lands that are cultivated, stock-raising is widely practiced and bananas, cacao and coconuts (the principal exports) are raised. The Government is sponsoring many new agricultural enterprises with a view to meeting any readjustments imposed by post-war conditions.
Imports have consisted largely of certain food products, textiles, machinery, fuels and lubricants, drugs and chemicals, electrical supplies and building materials.
Manufacturing (mainly of beverages, hats, furniture, shoes and tobacco products) is principally for domestic consumption.
CoSTA RICA • The predominating agricultural economy of Costa Rica was aided by: (1) the local Spanish tendency to establish small farms (in contrast to large estates), and (2) the offer of the Costa Rican Government, shortly after independence was obtained in 1821, of free land to those who would agree to plant coffee trees. Partly as a result of this second factor, coffee by 1829 had become the chief export crop, and remains so. Bananas and cocoa are also important exports. More than four-fifths of exports in average years has consisted of these three crops.
Principal imports include machinery, textiles and various foodstuffs. In 1942 the U. S. took 71% of Costa Rica’s exports and supplied 73% of imports.
Two ranges of mountains divide Costa Rica into three zones: (1) the temperate zone on the central plateau between these ranges. Here are produced vegetables, cereals, fruits and the best grades of coffee, and here is the population center of the country; (2) the lowlands along both coasts, where bananas, cacao, coconuts, sugar cane and some fruits are raised, and (3) the highlands, noted principally for stock-raising.
With an area of 23,000 square miles and a population of 656,000, Costa Rica is not thickly populated, except in the vicinity of the capital city of San Jose.
The main Pan American World Airways route between Mexico and South America serves Costa Rica at San Jose.
Logs of strong and valuable Nicaraguan mahogany are hoisted aboard a freighter.
Experts study chances of extracting rubber from trees in Panama jungle.
Sisal fiber dries in the heat of a strong Costa Rica sun.
Bags of Panama coffee are stacked in a pier at Cristobal.