WEST INDIES
111
TUERTO RICO • Most-important dependency of the United States in Latin America is the island of Puerto Rico (Rich Port), so named by the early Spanish settlers.
The island was discovered by Columbus on his second voyage, and later explored by Ponce de Leon.
At first, colonists turned over much of the island to the grazing of cattle, but sugar has been important since the 18th century.
Puerto Rico is the second most populous of the possessions of the United States.
More than 1,869,000 persons live in Puerto Rico’s 3,435 square miles, about a tenth of them in the capital and chief commercial center, San Juan, an important stop on Pan American World Airways routes. This city would become an important center on projected Pan American express routes.
The fertile soil is intensively cultivated, with sugar, rum, fruits (pineapples, oranges, grapefruit), tobacco and coffee the chief export crops raised. Cotton, linen and silk manufactures and embroideries are exported to the U. S. where they find a ready market. Conversely, Puerto Rico is one of the best customers of the U. S. Manufacturing is being diversified but at present consists chiefly of canning, sugar processing, and making of clothing.
Most of the coastal region is devoted to raising of sugar cane. Several of the largest mills in the world are operated on the island, capable of converting four million tons of cane into five hundred thousand tons of sugar annually.
Acres of choice tobacco are grown under cheesecloth in the mountains of Puerto Rico.
LeEWARD ISLANDS • The British Leeward Islands are a group of small islands lying east of Puerto Rico, of which Antigua is perhaps best known, reached by air by Pan American World Airways.
The United States was granted the site for a naval base on Antigua in 1940.
Principal products of the Leeward Islands are sugar and molasses, cotton, salt, tobacco and cigars, fruits and vegetables. The area of the islands is 727 square miles and the population 97,600.
Wn
INDWARD ISLANDS • The Windward Islands are the most easterly of the islands of the Caribbean. They consist of a number of British and French islands, none very large, but economically of interest and militarily of importance because their naval bases guard the approaches to the Panama Canal.
The greatest rural density of population in Middle and South America (1,163 per square mile) is found on the island of Barbados.
Principal points in the islands are served by Pan American.
Chief products of the islands are sugar, molasses and rum, coffee, cocoa, bananas, peanuts, cassava, arrowroot, limes, mangoes, cotton and coconuts.
p ' .v,vgg■ • v*<»pr
mm
77nnt
...» nrttt
ìBÌÌBIIì:

Stately Capitol in San Juan, Puerto Rico, is home of Insular Legislature.
Docks and waterfront at Kingston, capital of Jamaica.
Vi i
IRGIN ISLANDS • The Virgin Islands became United States possessions in 1917 by purchase from Denmark. The area of the main islands totals 136 square miles, and the population 24,880.
The leading exports are sugar, rum, and bay oil and bay rum (from the leaves of the bay tree). Air service to the islands is by Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers.
TrINIDAD • The most southerly of the West Indies is Trinidad, a British Crown Colony, only about 25 miles off the Venezuelan coast, an island of half a million people and 1,864 square miles. Most trade, both import and export, is with the United States.
Port of Spain, capital and chief port, is an important stopover point on several Pan American World Airways routes. The name is a reminder that Spain once ruled the island.
Tropical fruits grow on the third of the island under cultivation, but it is the 114-acre, seemingly-inexhaustible asphalt lake that has been Trinidad’s chief claim to commercial fame. The asphalt deposits result from oil seepages into the lake depression.
Cacao is now the leading crop, while sugar cane, although still cultivated widely, is much less important than formerly.
Ni
lETHERLANDS WEST INDIES • The Latin Ameri-can territories under the rule of The Netherlands are: Netherlands Guiana (Surinam) on the South American mainland; the islands of Curacao, Aruba and Bonaire (off the coast of Venezuela); and three smaller possessions in the Lesser Antilles. Of these, Saba is interesting because of its villages nestled in the crater of a now inactive volcano.
Area and population of Curacao, Aruba and Bonaire is about 374 square miles and 105,000 people. Willemstad, the capital, is a port of call for Pan American World Airways Clippers.
The harbor of Willemstad (a city which has all the appearances of a "bit of old Holland”) is one of the finest in the West Indies. It has a long channel, which terminates in a large bay.
The refining of oil, at some of the world’s largest refineries, has made the Netherlands West Indies world-famous. Some tropical fruits and vegetables are raised.
Sugar "central” for re- ” f fining cane from fertile f Haitian fields.
Trinidad’s Crater Lake is best-known source of asphalt.
Bananas are transferred from lighter to freighter at Jamaica.
Picking coffee on a large	Seine-fishing at St. Kitts, British West
plantation in the Puerto	Indies.
Rican highlands.