VENEZUELA
newer fields lying between the Caribbean and the Orinoco.
The lake bed is, geologically, a natural oil "trap,” being a deep, wide fold between two extensions of the Andes.
The skyrocketing of the oil industry has, in the last 20 years, drawn a number of farm workers from agricultural pursuits so that even foodstuffs have had to be imported, partially to make up for the decline in crop production.
Large AREAS TO BE EXPLORED • Venezuela’s
population density is about nine inhabitants per square mile. There are many miles of Venezuela, particularly in the South, yet to be fully explored and surveyed. When transportation facilities can be extended, scientific farming introduced, and small, owner-worked farms encouraged, it is hoped that more persons will investigate the possibilities for moving south from the coastal and mountain areas where the bulk of the population now is. Government profits from the petroleum industry have been used to aid agriculture.
Although oil is by far the most important product, coffee (once the economic backbone of the country) remains as the number two export. It is produced in almost all parts of Venezuela but grows best in the middle altitudes of the Cordillera in the West. Three of every four people are employed in agriculture, most of them in the coffee industry.
Cocoa, also an important export crop, comes mainly from the coastal states. Although not exported, sizeable crops of cotton, sugar cane, and corn are harvested—almost all of which are consumed within the country. Wheat, rice, oats, and potatoes also are raised but not in sufficient amounts to do away with the necessity of importing them.
Va RIETY OF FOREST PRODUCTS • South of the
Orinoco, in great trackless areas as yet little explored and still less developed, and elsewhere are forests covering half the total area of Venezuela. Fine cabinet-woods are found in these tropical and sub-tropical forests: cedar, mahogany, ceiba, ja-billo, and many others.
From this region come as well such things as oil-bearing palm nuts, balata (the rubbery gum used for golf ball covers and wire insulation, from the bully tree), chicle (for chewing gum), medicinal plants, tonka beans (used in flavoring), and (for tanning) divi-divi and mangrove bark. Rubber, sugar, and tobacco also come in varying amounts from Venezuela’s fields and forests.
Early conquistadores sought, but seldom found, the rich stores of precious minerals that are within the borders of Venezuela.
From beneath her soil, Venezuela already extracts or will extract untold amounts of gold (third most important export),
Legislative Palace, in the center of Caracas, near Bolivar Square.
Driving foundations for an oil well far out in Lake Maracaibo.
iron, silver, coal, diamonds, copper, chrome, tin, emeralds, lead, mica, magnesite and bauxite, although as yet mining is not a major industry. From several lakes, one of them of 1,000 acres, workers dig the sticky but valuable asphalt.
From Margarita Island, largest of 71 Caribbean islands belonging to Venezuela, come pearls and magnesite.
Large sections of Venezuela are suitable for cattle raising, particularly the llanos north of the great Orinoco. This river and its many tributaries make up a large percentage of the 12,000 miles of navigable streams. High pastures to the South, in the State of Bolivar, free from floods, promise to supplement the lush grasslands of the llanos as a grazing area. In at least some of the states where cattle are raised, they represent the major source of wealth. From cattle come meat and hides. Also raised, although in lesser amounts, are goats, sheep, hogs, and horses.
Venezuelan industries rely on local agricultural production, or on imports. There are some packing houses, creameries, dairies, tanneries, shoe factories, sugar mills, and tobacco factories. Cotton textile mills supplement textile imports.
Almost all industrial equipment, machinery, textiles, cars and trucks, chemicals, etc., must be imported.
Enjoys GOOD COMMUNICATIONS • Venezuela’s central location in regard to the Panama Canal, Central America, and all the West Indies, together with her position as a natural gateway to the rest of South America, is largely responsible for the excellent air and sea communications Venezuela enjoys with her neighbors. International air transport to North, Central and the rest of South America is provided by Pan American World Airways Clippers. A new domestic airline, Aerovias Venezolanas (Avensa), supplements the Government Linea Aeropostal. Between 12 and 20 new commercial airfields are contemplated by the government, which recognizes fully the value of aviation in a land where transportation is of paramount importance.
Pipe line and derricks for loading oil tankers bound for Curacao refineries.

Wells and storage tanks at a large oil refinery.