only one of five earns a living from agriculture. The country is midway toward completion of an ambitious four-year plan for agricultural expansion. Surveys indicate that one-third of Mexico is suitable for grazing. Production of agricultural products (cotton, sisal, guayule rubber, corn, fruits, vegetables) will, under the plan, be increased and newest methods of farming introduced with a consequent favorable effect on Mexico’s economy in general and that of the agricultural workers in particular.
Related projects are planned to provide important hydraulic and hydroelectric works and to benefit at least 1,000,000 persons by a 30% increase in drained or irrigated lands.
More than one-seventh of Mexico is forested, and some of these timber resources are worked commercially.
production of iron ore, manganese, and other minerals—plans for increased production of which have been formulated.
Mayan Temple at Chichen Itza, on the Yucatan Peninsula.
Air view of the Plaza de la Constitución, Mexico City, showing President’s Palace and Cathedral in foreground.
Wi DE RANGE OF INDUSTRIES • Mexico’s industries range from small local handicrafts to large manufacturing plants.
New industrial enterprises (186 new companies have been formed since 1940, capitalized at some $20,000,000) are entering the fields of metals, chemicals, food products, fiber and papers, and construction materials. A similar amount may be invested to modernize Mexico’s most important industry, textiles.
Mexico City, Guadalajara, Leon, Monterrey, Puebla, Merida, Tampico, Torreon, Vera Cruz, and Saltillo are well-known and important commercial or industrial centers.
Nearly 17% of all Mexicans live in the 31 cities with populations exceeding 25,000.
XX^EALTH IN MINERALS • Mexico’s well-known metallic resources represent at least a third of the national wealth with value of annual production for a typical year exceeding $200,000,000. The Republic is among the world’s largest producers of silver, gold, lead, molybdenum, antimony, mercury, vanadium, and zinc. It also is an important producer of copper, bismuth, cadmium, tin, tungsten, manganese, and platinum. The nation’s coal reserves are thought to rank second among Latin American nations.
Along the Gulf of Mexico coast, Mexico possesses some of the heaviest oil-bearing regions in the world.
The Government has under way programs for exploration of new oil fields, development of existing ones, improvements in refineries, and better distribution facilities.
Depending upon the degree to which new machinery can be introduced, and the world markets for Mexico’s metals maintained, Mexico’s mining industry is expected to prosper.
The iron and steel industry is expanding. Existing mills at Mexico City and Monterrey are being enlarged and a new rolling mill stands completed. All will draw on the domestic
Transportation important • in a nation
with topography such as Mexico’s, airlines have a particular opportunity to prove their value. According to the New Year’s (1944) message of the President, particular attention will be given to stimulating civil aviation. Plans for expanding commercial air services are well under way. The Mexico City airport, already the busiest in Latin America, is to be modernized at a cost of $3,000,000, making it one of the largest and best equipped in all of Latin America. Pan American World Airways provides international air service; Compañía Mexicana de Aviación, affiliate of Pan American, operates both international and domestic routes.
Included in the modernization plan are six other important airports, while a number of new airports are in the blueprint stage. Total airline mileage in Mexico now exceeds 18,000 miles, including international services.
The rehabilitation of the railroad system is a major project which will require several years to complete. This is being undertaken jointly by the Mexican and United States Governments. Highway construction is being pushed with a budget appropriation for $20,000,000 for 1944 construction.
Shipping lines serve several seaports.
Mexico’s most important exports consist of oil and other minerals, metals, fibers, coffee, bananas, cattle, hides, skins, and chicle. Her normal imports include automobiles, tubing and piping, colors, cloth, rayon yarns, tin plate, machinery and accessories, etc.
Here too air transport is proving its value by rushing air cargo to and from Mexico and neighboring nations.
Business possibilities in Mexico are considered promising by economists, with numerous private and governmental projects either undertaken or nearing completion. A joint Mexican-American Commission to foster economic cooperation has been established and, as equipment and technical assistance become more readily available, many projects will be expedited.
Collecting rubber-bearing guayule, a supplement to rubber from trees.
Giant 310-ton blast furnace at steel mill in Monterrey, "Mexico’s Pittsburgh.”
Biggest silver mine in the world is at Pachuca, near Mexico City.
Tampico oil refinery, showing stills and tanks for separation of distillates.