^JenfuUn
LEGEND
High Mountains
Rugged Mountains and Desert Ranges
Low Mountains and Uplands
Plateaus
Lowlands and Plains
(Rítmate
AND
SEASONS
Ideal All-year Climate—The variations of climate throughout Middle and South America are such that a general tour of these regions can be made in complete comfort at any time of the year.
North of the Equator—The climate of Mexico is delightful at all seasons. During the rainy season, showers are almost always of short duration and occur late in the afternoon. Although Yucatan is more tropical than the central plateau of Mexico, it is destined to become a popular winter resort because of unsurpassed climate—the days are balmy and the nights cool. Summer mornings are comfortable and afternoons warm but not disagreeable, because of the unfailing winds that blow over the Peninsula of Yucatan from the Gulf of Mexico. Sum-
mer nights are pleasantly cool. The same may be said in general of Central America, the West Indies, and Northern S. A.
South of the Equator—While the seasons in the temperate zone of the Southern Hemisphere are the reverse of those in the temperate zone of the Northern Hemisphere, the summers are not extreme, nor are the winters uncomfortable. Variations in altitude provide a wide range of climates. The "reversed” seasons become: Spring—Sept. 21st to Dec. 20th; Summer-Dec. 21st to March 20th; Autumn—Mar. 21st to June 20th; Winter—June 21st to Sept. 20th. However, in the region bordering on the Equator there are practically only two seasons—the dry season and the so-called "rainy” season.
Tid&at ta 'Wear
For Mexico, bring the same clothing that you wear at home on sunny days in the late fall. For the cool evenings a light overcoat or wrap is desirable. In Taxco, Uruapa, Oaxaca and other places at lower altitudes than Mexico City somewhat lighter clothing will be found convenient, say prints and linens. By all means, bring comfortable walking shoes.
For Yucatan, Central America, and the lowlands of Colombia, Venezuela, and Ecuador, light summer apparel can be used throughout the year. Summer clothing should be worn in the
coast towns of Peru and Chile, and "Palm Beach” or similar weight suits are in order in the West Indies, the Guianas, the Canal Zone and Brazil.
Warm clothing will be needed for the cool mountain regions, especially in Peru and Bolivia. Sports clothes, rubber-soled shoes and white apparel are useful while visiting the coastal areas of eastern South America. For Argentina and Uruguay one should dress as in the U. S., i.e., in accordance with the prevailing season. Laundry is done at the large hotels en route.
32