CO LO M B I A	©Capital of Country
(Znod&toacU t&e
‘Wedt&w TiJwM
Only eight years after Christopher Columbus skirted the coast but (by some accounts) failed to land there,
Colombia was being explored and settled by conquistadors. Stately galleons soon were returning to Spain, their holds laden with gold and precious stones secured from the sometimes-friendly Indians.
On a variety of lands, from deeply-indented river valleys to pastures high on perpetually snow-capped mountains, European (mostly Spanish) immigrants introduced cattle, coffee, grains, and sugar cane—later to become the agricultural ivealth of the nation.
Bolivar envisioned Colombia as the keystone of his dreamed-of United States of South America; actually it ivas, for a time, the center of liberated Gran Colombia, a territory including much of present-day Venezuela and Ecuador as well.
Although geographical differences are responsible for the concentration of population in 14 or more "clusters”, this diversity of land and people, strangely enough, has had a unifying effect upon the nation, resulting in political and social coherence. Air transport has been a major factor in the development of this nation.
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
tARLY EXPLORERS named Colombia the Land of El Dorado (the Gilded Man). Local Indians were said to hold a ceremony during which a chief was coated with gold dust. Rowed to the middle of a lake, he there washed off his costly covering while his followers tossed in gold and emeralds.
The first settlers may not have discovered this legendary lake, but they soon did discover stores of gold and precious stones. For 300 years gold remained the chief export and even today is one of the three most important trade items.
Of all of Spain’s New World possessions, Colombia produced mo$t gold. The nation now is the foremost producer in South America. Between 1537 and 1882 more than half a billion dollars’ worth of gold came from Colombia’s mines and river beds. About 400,000 Colombians depend directly or indirectly on gold production and 16 to 20 per cent of normal foreign trade receipts come from shipments of this valuable metal.
Among other mineral resources, potential or partially developed, are: oil (now the chief mineral export), coal, copper, tin, iron, lead, platinum, silver and zinc.
Oi
IL PRODUCTION PROMISING • Oil has been of importance since 1926 and now ranks second or third on leading export lists, although the much more extensive neighboring fields of Venezuela produce more oil. The two outstanding petroleum development projects at present are the De Mares and the Barco concessions. From the latter oil must be piped over mountains and through jungles seldom equalled elsewhere in the world.