ECUADOR	® Capital
Because it is bisected by the Equator, Ecuador was named for that parallel. But it is the Andes that divide Ecuador actually far more than the imaginary line of the Equator. Those mighty ranges separate Ecuador topographically into: a mountainous central area, a tropical coastal belt and the trans-Andean forests and plains, the Oriente. Perhaps 3,200,000 persons live in these sections, which together comprise an area of some 276,000 square miles.
For 230 years, an orderly colonial administration, established in 1336, supervised this important region athivart the sea and land routes between the Spanish Main and the viceroyalty of Peru. (Even earlier, the Incas had extended their poiver over much of present-day Ecuador.)
Ecuador’s strategic position today is emphasized by her important exports and by the Galapagos Islands, 600 miles out in the Pacific. Natural bastions for defending the Panama Canal, bases on these islands were placed at U. S. disposal ”for the duration” by Ecuador.
Nine-tenths of all commerce into Ecuador
passes through the picturesque main port of Guayaquil, 40 miles up the Guayas River from the Pacific. In Guayaquil’s busy harbor ocean liners often are surrounded by canoes, barges and sail boats, many of them piled high with a variety of trop-
20
Country	Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
ical fruits and other products of the interior.
Here in 1822 met Simon Bolivar and San Martin, two patriots who, with Antonio Jose de Sucre, were among those most active in forging the independence of Latin America.
Although the tropical coastal lowlands along the Pacific are sometimes inundated by seasonal rains, the higher lands in the vicinity of Esmeraldas, on the northern coast, form a fertile agricultural area yielding rubber, cacao, tagua nuts and timber. This area was the first land in the famed Kingdom of Quito.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS • Of Ecuador’s production of oil (at present limited) most comes from fields on the Santa Elena Peninsula, near Salinas (west of Guayaquil) where are also produced salt, sulphur and pitch.
Because Ecuadorians are in many respects economically self-sufficient, foreign trade figures in general are low compared to population and size of the country. Exports in 1941 totaled $13,300,000 and imports $10,000,000.
Principal imports have been largely manufactured goods, such as machinery of all types, iron and steel for construction, cotton manufactures, chemicals, paper, trucks, tires, and wool.
Half of Ecuador’s pre-war exports (by value) consisted of foodstuffs (cacao 30%, coffee 15%, and bananas and rice 5%). Early in the century, Ecuador supplied nearly 16% of the world’s production of cacao.
Additional valuable exports in normal times are: cyanide precipitates (gold, etc.) 15%, oil 12%, tagua nuts 12% for "vegetable (imitation) ivory,” balsa wood and rubber 5%, and