METALS
METALS
METALS

WHEAT
COTTON
STEEL
WORKS
COTTON
I UVEA
SUGAR
ANTIMONY
CORN
MERCURY
CORN
TOBACCO
COffEE
CORN
COPPEf
MEXICO, D.F.
COAL
CATTU5
SILVER
0OLO
® Capital of Country
I HE NEAREST NEIGHBOR, in many ways, that the United States has is Mexico, a nation with close political and economic ties with the U. S. The latest available figures (1943) show Mexico first among the Latin American Republics as a market for U. S. exports and third in Latin America in value of products imported by the U. S. More U. S. citizens reside in Mexico than in any other Latin American nation.
Primarily, Mexico is a nation with an agricultural economy. But Mexico long has maintained her favorable position in world economy by sizeable exports of minerals.
Economic conditions, particularly since the war, have been favorable, with a "boom” of some proportions, due largely to a favorable balance of merchandise exports. In addition, for several years, foreign capital has been directed at Mexico in response to investment possibilities.
Together these factors have resulted in building up a considerable financial backlog with which numerous projects (agricultural, industrial, and public works) within Mexico could be initiated or pushed to completion.
Centuries before Columbus discovered the "New World,” people living in Mexico enjoyed a civilization of high culture. Today in Mexico City one can find a 20th Century metropolis built on ruins of long-past ages. Great modern industries, mills and mines, flourish here; so too do primitive handicrafts in quaint out-of-the-ivay villages. Twenty million people live and work here in a nation one-fourth as large as the U. S., most of them in the great central plateau area.
To the successful prosecution of the ivar, Mexico wholeheartedly devoted her entire resources. She early declared ivar on the Axis, and from her soil (and subsoil) came the minerals and other raw materials to keep moving the ivheels of war industry. In peacetime these products are equally valuable. For years Mexico has carried on most of her business with the U. S. and American capital and experience have helped her develop numerous profitable sources of ivealth. Airlines, started in Mexico more than 20 years ago, now extend to all centers of trade and population.
RICULTURE BEING EXPANDED
Three of
every four in Mexico work on the land, whereas in the U. S.