UiSSmm^msi
Havana
One reason for the importance of Cuban-U. S. trade relations is that products of the two countries are complementary, each supplying what the other desires.
In terms of value, Cuba’s principal peacetime exports are, in order (based on 1941 figures) : raw and refined sugar, molasses and syrups, tobacco, manganese, chrome and copper ores; and in lesser amounts: fruits and vegetables, coffee, cordage and fibers, hides and skins.
Normally, Cuba’s principal commodity imports, measured by value, have been (in order): foodstuffs, textiles and textile goods, metals and manufactures, machinery and apparatus, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, petroleum and derivatives, paper and lumber, automobiles, trucks and parts, etc.
Cuba’s second most important crop (and third most important export product) is high-quality tobacco, 40% of which is grown in the Province of Pinar del Rio. Approximately 60% of the tobacco crop is exported, mainly to the U. S. Coffee production, too, has been encouraged, particularly in the last 17 years.
Fruits and vegetables rank third in importance of agricultural production and are grown for domestic and North American tables. Also produced, both for local and export markets, are coffee, cacao, henequen, rice, beans, and cotton.
Diversi FICATION ENCOURAGED • Large sections of Cuba are considered suitable for stock-raising. The dairy and cattle industries have been encouraged, so that today their importance is reflected in the fact that not only is Cuba self-sufficient in requirements for—but can export—meats, butter, and milk.
Despite the continuing importance of these products the diversification of agriculture and the growth of a number of manufacturing industries have tended to alter the traditional pattern of Cuba’s foreign purchases.
Not only does the volume of exports from Cuba determine largely the value of products that Cuba can import but tourist "trade” in normal times brings an appreciable amount of foreign exchange to Cuba. The tourist attractions of Cuba are world-famous and the island has established a reputation as an ideal winter vacation resort. In the years 1936-40 expenditures by tourists amounted to about $12,500,000 annually.
The Cuban Government, conscious of the disadvantages of a one-crop economy, has encouraged the diversification of agriculture and the growth of a number of manufacturing industries. Any post-war adjustments necessitated by changes in foreign demands for Cuba’s principal products are expected to be cushioned by this diversification.
The beautiful Capitol Building dominates the skyline of Havana.
Ready for drying, these tobacco leaves will make superior cigars.
Mach
INERY NEEDED • Shoes, cordage, textiles,
processed foods, and cement for an accelerated building program would, under this diversification, be turned out locally in increasing quantities. It is planned to concentrate on foodprocessing and cement manufacture.
Domestic production (from imported raw materials) of items for local distribution is expected to call for increased post-war imports of machinery and agricultural equipment.
Public works (new roads and road repairs, aqueducts, water supply plants) are included in projected improvements when military demands are no longer paramount.
New electric power generating plants are being blueprinted and when constructed are expected to supplement coal and petroleum imports in meeting fuel and power requirements.
The war has focused attention on Cuba’s mining industry, again of importance. Only Brazil, among the Americas, produces more manganese than does Cuba, and sizeable tonnages of Cuba manganese ore are shipped to the U. S. Chrome, iron, and copper deposits also are worked commercially.
Good TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE • Principal
cities and centers of commercial and industrial activities are: Havana (population 569,000), capital and chief commercial center; Santiago; Cienfuegos; Holguin; Camaguey, cattle-raising and agricultural center; and Santa Clara. Ten cities have a population of more than 50,000 each.
Cuba enjoys excellent communications and transportation facilities with her neighbors, particularly the U. S. Frequent air service is maintained by Pan American World Airways between Miami, Havana, Mexico, Central and South America and the other Caribbean countries. A domestic airline, Compania Cubana de Aviacion, serves a dozen cities throughout the island. Many good harbors and anchorages for freighters are provided by the irregular coastline.
Recently, standards of living and purchasing power have risen due to higher general prosperity induced by greater agricultural and industrial activity.
Typical field of full-grown |.•'
pineapples in the Province	—*------
of Pinar del Rio.	Large "centrals” like this
Nickel moves
stockpile to JnlTandTyerl?”1
process the sugar cane.