A number of oil companies in 1943 filed applications for new concessions covering more than 11,000,000 acres.
More than 200 years ago gold miners along the west coast discovered a new material in the ore they were digging. For years this was laboriously separated from the gold, then discarded as worthless. The "worthless” material was platinum.
As other sources of the metal were depleted and industrial uses for it increased, its value rose and its production in Colombia was stimulated. Even before World War I the nation had emerged as the world’s prime source of the scarce metal.
By 1550, Spaniards had discovered and were working the world-famous Muzo emerald mines 75 miles north of Bogota, the capital, in the depths of a now-extinct volcano crater. With pick-ax and crowbar millions of dollars’ worth of these green quartz crystals, fragile until hardened by exposure to air, have been dug from the earth and carefully washed.
Coffee most important export • important as are platinum and emeralds, it is coffee, gold, and oil (in that order) that are responsible for nine of every ten pesos that Colombia receives for her exports.
Colombian economists can judge fluctuations in the national economic barometer almost entirely by following news of the world’s changing demands for coffee. For Colombia is led only by Brazil in the amount of coffee exported.
From thousands of trees growing in orderly rows on the sides of Colombia’s valleys and sheltered from the direct sun rays comes the "suave” coffee for which the country is noted.
Because land was cheap and abundant, cattle raising became a leading industry in colonial days. About one-fifth of current national production is represented by this industry, confined mainly to coastal zones and the valleys and high plateaus of the interior, but the great llanos to the east are considered well-adapted for cattle. Cattle hides comprise the bulk of the animal products exported. Seldom realized is the fact that of all the 20 nations of Latin America only Argentina and Brazil produce more meat than Colombia.
Most of the principal cities and the agricultural and mineral products so important to the country’s economic life are found on the tablelands and wide, fertile valleys along the three great ranges that comprise the northern end of the Andes chain.
■ ;** '•
JsSà :
Csiy
Tree-lined Paseo de Bolivar, main street of Bar-ranquilla.
’’Mi
Plaza Bolivar in central Bogota, faced by_ cathedral and government and commercial buildings.
The only South American nation with seacoasts and major ports on both the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans is Colombia.
Three of South America’s four great river systems have their headwaters in Colombia. The important Magdalena River, flowing south to north carries both foreign and domestic commerce, most of it passing through the busy, modern port of Barranquilla, located near where the river meets the sea.
The trend toward industrialization, with consumer goods (particularly textiles) receiving most attention, is reflected in import figures for industrial equipment, with machinery (electrical, mining and agricultural) apparatus, and other manufactured and semi-manufactured articles making up nine-tenths of imports. In the years immediately preceding the war, the U. S. has steadily added to its large share of Colombia’s import business.
Shortages of labor, power and local raw materials have deterred this development and about half of total "prime” products required in manufacturing have had to be imported.
Resources to furnish power for local manufacturing are being further developed and almost $8,000,000 worth of new generating equipment will be needed, it has been announced. The electric supply for the manufacturing city and coffee center of Medellin would, for example, be doubled by installation of a new generating plant. Much new equipment for textile mills now running 24 hours a day is on order.
LONG SERVED BY AIR TRANSPORT - Whilethese mountains help offset the heat, they at the same time acted as barriers to transportation and communication until the advent of air transportation. The first commercial airline in regular operation in the Western Hemisphere was started in Colombia in 1920. Now named avianca (Aerovías Nacionales de Colombia) this company is an integrated part of the Latin American services of Pan American World Airways.
Three-fifths of Colombia lies in the general area sloping from the Andes ranges east of Bogota to the Brazilian border. In the main this promising area is sparsely populated. Besides the mountains and this area there is the low-lying west coast region.
INDUSTRIALIZATION ENCOURAGED - The Colombian Industrial Development Institute, a Government-sponsored organization, is aiding this industrialization with the establishment of an ore-smelter plant and a steel mill, two of the first steps taken to develop heavy industry.
Metal manufactures, chemical products and transportation equipment are among the more important of secondary imports.
On farming lands (mainly the altiplanos and the sides of the cordilleras) are extensive sugar cane and cacao plantings. Although not of importance in foreign trade figures because mainly consumed locally, they are two of the chief commercial crops.
■ÇS|
rVA~v
SM
A- ç, *
S
ANtl


e grasslands.
Prom the depths of the Caribbean come fish, for sale at Barranquilla.
,
Hydraulic ’~~gold’ .	■	;
force °f ¿¿t/TZeT* ^
Warehouse full of coffee on a Buenaventura pier awaiting shipment.