RUBBER

BEANS
SUGAR
BANANAS
COCONUTS
CATTLE
CATTLE
vTEMALA
GOLO
CATTLE
sananas!
Suôar
CATTLE GOLD
COTTON
»NAGUA
BANANAS
CATTLE
ÍAHOGANY
CATTLE
LUMBER
JOSE
jangane$£
BANANAS
CACAO
coconuts'
TIMBER

(§) Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
Guatemala • The 45,452 square miles of Guatemala are, mainly, mountains and high fertile plateaus, except for the low, tropical coastal regions. The picturesque life of many of its 3,284,000 inhabitants makes Guatemala one of the most colorful of the Central American Republics. It is the most populous (and its capital city the largest) of the Central American Republics. Ruins of ancient temples remind sightseers that this was the home of the Mayas.
Guatemala is an important air junction point where Pan American World Airways routes from the North, Northeast, Northwest, and South converge. Aerovias de Guatemala regularly serves a number of airports.
The name Guatemala means "Land of the Trees” and in the dense jungle area of northern Guatemala (one-third of the nation) many Sapodilla trees are tapped for chicle. Great reserves of dyewood, mahogany, cedar and other woods here remain to be utilized.
More than 85% of Guatemala’s exports in recent years have been coffee and bananas, with sugar, timber, hides and chicle being shipped in lesser amounts. Coffee plantations occupy over one-fifth of the cultivated land area.
During the decade of 1929-1939, the United States increased (to 70%) its lead as the first-ranking purchaser of Guatemala’s exports. In imports into Guatemala, the U. S. share increased 10% (to 54%) during 1939.
H
O N DU RAS • The first land on the North American continent on which Columbus set foot is in present-day Honduras. That was August 14, 1502. Twenty-two years later Cortez extended Spanish rule over the country, which today has 1,105,000 inhabitants in an area of 44,275 square miles.
Silver is an important export, and it was silver mines which first attracted Spaniards to the highlands, which comprise most of Honduras. They founded a city near existing mining operations so extensive the Indians had named the spot Tegucigalpa, "Hill of Silver.” The Spaniards adopted the name for their city.
Bananas, however, make up about 65% of normal Honduran exports, and about nine-tenths of these (as well as other exports) went to the U. S.
Coffee, coconuts, and hides are other exports of some importance. Imports consist chiefly of: foodstuffs, oil, iron and steel, cotton, sugar and fabrics. Of these the U. S. generally has supplied more than two-thirds.
Numerous valleys provide pasture for herds of cattle and fertile soil in which many tropical crops can be raised. All phases of tropical agriculture are to be studied at the School of Pan American Agriculture, at Zamorano, established 1944.
Mahogany trees, "timber kings of the tropics,” grow in many parts of Honduras.
Honduras enjoys Pan American World Airways Flying Clipper service to all of Latin America and to the U. S., as well as domestic air services.