(g) Capital of Country
Map symbols ^opyrignted by dictograph Corp.
UIIU VXUUII 1C

CUBA
Close to the United States geographically attd commercially is Cuba, one of the first of the American republics to be discovered and settled. The independence of Cuba was secured with the aid of the United States. Since the attainment of that independence most of Cuba’s exports have gone to the U. S. and this country has been the largest supplier of Cubans import needs.
Cuba strategically commands three great sea gateivays equally important in peace and war. They are the Florida and the Yucatan Channels (the sea gateways between the Gulf of Mexico and, respectively, the Atlantic and the Caribbean) and the narroiv Windivard Passage from the Atlantic to the Caribbean.
As the ”garden spot of the Caribbean,” Cuba’s economy is largely agricidtural but other sources of wealth are being developed. Her people enjoy a background and a culture that is a fortunate blending of Spanish and African influences. Airlines serve all parts of the island and connect Cuba with all her neighbor nations.
ThE LARGEST ISLAND of the West Indies, lying 100 miles off the United States, is Cuba. Its 44,000 square miles extend from east to west in a 760-mile-long crescent.
8
Agriculture, Industry and Mining, in that order, are the principal pursuits of the 4,200,000 inhabitants.
Basically, Cuba’s economy hinges on sugar—both by value and by volume the island’s most important product. The island is the world’s second largest producer, and normally the world’s largest exporter, of sugar, largely because the climate of the Caribbean makes it one of the best-adapted areas in the world for this crop.
SuGAR —CHIEF EXPORT • Half of the cultivated land in Cuba is devoted to sugar cane, and Cuba is the outstanding Latin American sugar producer and exporter, supplying more than half of total Latin American production. About 7,000,000 acres, mainly fertile coastal plains, are devoted to raising sugar cane, with 157 active sugar mills.
Since by far the greatest percentage is shipped to the United States, the changes in Cuba’s sugar exports depend largely on the national income level in the U. S. The reason: high per capita sugar consumption accompanies high income levels.
Sizeable quantities of industrial alcohol and rum, both derived from sugar, have lately been imported by the U. S.
Cuba has ranked third only to Mexico and Brazil as a market for our exports to Latin America, and first in all Latin America in value of exports to the United States. Total U. S. merchandise exports to Cuba in 1943 were valued at $133,937,000; imports from Cuba at $291,812,000.