® Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
and 'PxomiAe
In 7535 Pizarro, the explorer, led his folloivers into what is notv Peru. There he discovered that the strongest and perhaps oldest cultured race in the hemisphere, the Incas, tv ere ruling an extensive empire with 12,000,000 subjects.
At that time Peru was important as a possible source of precious metals. Today her chief wealth lies in the actual, if more prosaic, production of her oil wells, mines, fields, and forests.
In Peru’s half million square miles live 7,000,000 persons, about as many as reside in California. The backbone of the mighty Andes, running the length of Peru, divides their country into three distinct regions. In spite of geographical obstacles thus imposed they have been able to develop their country’s natural resources and to plan for extensive new industries. These enterprises are expected to benefit to a considerable degree a nation notv predominantly agricultural.
Air transport has been an important factor in binding together this nation and in stimulating its domestic and international trade.
Pe RU’S THREE SECTIONS ARE: (1) a coastal strip, varying between 25 and 100 miles in width along the 1,400 mile coast, dry and sandy from almost total lack of rains except where ocean-bound, life-giving streams dissect it. About 22% of the population of Peru is located here;
(2)	tablelands, high plateaus, and the even-higher peaks of the Andes, together making up two-thirds of the nation and the home of two of every three Peruvians, and
(3)	the selva, or eastern slopes of the mountains, and the lower jungle valleys into which these slopes descend.
Fed by melting snows in the mountains and infrequent rains, rivers cut through the coastal strip, leaving narrow but fertile irrigated valleys in which agriculture has proven profitable.
Flowing up from the icy Antarctic, the Humboldt Current brings cooling air and millions of fish rich in nitrogen. For centuries, birds living on the islands off the coast have feasted on these fish and deposited all over the islands a deep layer of guano, one of the finest of fertilizers, and one of Peru’s important natural resources.
Cotton and sugar in valleys • Much cotton
(one of the principal exports), considerable sugar, and some rice is grown in the fertile coastal valleys, on both large haciendas and small, owner-worked farms.
There are few large harbors, excepting Callao, but Talara in the North, and Pisco and Mollendo in the South, handle considerable trade.
Of Peru’s petroleum production, 80% centers around Punta