® Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
'Ttatunai
Argentina, ivhile farthest from the U. S. geographically of any Latin American nation, is perhaps closest to the U. S. in many ways. Her culture and her population stem almost entirely from European sources. In education, in ideals, and to some extent economically she is much like our oivn nation. In seasons, however, she is the reverse of the U. S. for Summer here means Winter in the Argentine. Argentina has 36% of the area but only lOp/c of the population of the United States.
She enjoys the advantages and disadvantages of an economy largely agricultural, with most of her great wealth coming from stock raising and processing and from grains and other crops.
The varieties of climate and terrain (mountains, plains, forests, and a 1600 mile seacoast) contribute to the diversity of Argentina’s natural resources. Aviation makes possible swift transportation and communication between otherwise widely separated regions of this nation.
M
lORE OF THE WORLD’S beef and corn for export comes from Argentina, commercially the most important nation in South America, than from anywhere else in the world. At times she has exceeded even Canada as a wheat exporter. Almost 100% of Argentina’s exports are agricultural and pastoral. Her interests in the markets abroad for the products of her fields is vital and understandable.
Pai
lM PAS HAVE RICH SOIL • One-fourth of the country (250,000 square miles) is pampas—flat plains with rich soil a foot thick—the source of most of the nation’s wealth. From this area alone comes three-fourths of the world’s volume of international trade in flaxseed and quebracho (needed for tanning), two-thirds of the corn and linseed, one-third of the meat, hides and skins, and one-fifth of the wheat and flour.
On estancias (ranches), watched over by colorful gauchos (cowboys) of the pampas, graze most of Argentina’s 33,000,000 head of cattle.
In Patagonia, in the South, are rolling plateaus on which millions of sheep graze for mile on mile. Great agricultural fairs and stock shows are held yearly to display the finest specimens.
While Argentina can claim to be largely self-sufficient in