(§) Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
‘Ttatutot 'Va/Uect
cutd
The variations to be found in Chile are not entirely geographical, although these are important. Chile stretches 2,600 miles, from northern deserts within 18° of the Equator to cold, glacial archipelagoes in the South, farther than from New York to Panama.
First European to visit the shores of Chile was Magellan, on his famous voyage to circumnavigate the globe.
fust as the ancient Incas extended their rule from Peru north and south over part of Chile, so did adventurers and gold-seekers travel from Peru to Chile after 1535. Years of struggle with the warlike Araucanian Indians followed. Independence from Spain was obtained in 1810.
Chile, thanks to geography, has the driest and ivettest spots in the world’s temperate zones. Little but minerals and metals comes from the rain-free deserts and mountains in the North; forests flourish in the moisture-laden South; ivhile in mid-Chile’s ideal climate herds roam and crops thrive.
I N FEW PLACES does the width of Chile exceed 100 miles, yet two ranges of the Andes parallel each other the length of Chile. More than 300 Chilean peaks top Mt. Whitney (14,495 feet), highest in the continental U. S.
Chile’s Pacific coastline is actually farther east than the Atlantic coast of the United States. Scattered along its thousands of miles are about 60 ports, large and small.
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS • Of items making up this foreign trade more have, in recent years, been exports than imports. The result has been a "favorable” balance of trade and accumulation of credits abroad available to cover postwar purchases.
The chief exports of Chile have been: nitrates, copper, iodine, sulphur and iron from the North; agricultural products (including wines and fruits) from the central zone; and lumber, sea foods and wool from the South.
Normal imports have been chiefly cotton, lumber, paper, coal and coke, gasoline and lubricating oils, iron and steel, machinery, electrical goods and automobiles and trucks.
Certain foodstuffs (wheat and cattle) have been imported. While only about five per cent of Chile is arable, the total agricultural area is figured at 58,900,000 acres (more than Italy’s).
Many depend on agriculture • of a total
population of 5,023,000 late figures show nearly twice as many Chileans dependent on agriculture as on industry, and four