'BRAZIL NUTS
BRAZIL NUTS
VEGETABLE | OIL
CARNAUBA
WAX
CARNAUBA
WAX
LTTLE
CHROMIUM
BERYLLIUM
BAUXITE
[diamonds
O UARTJR&SP CRYSTALS
IRON
gkCOPFEI
IäNGANESI
RICE
COTTON VEGETABLE OIL^^
bananas
COAL
® Capital of Country
Map Symbols Copyrighted by Pictograph Corp. and Quarrie Corp.
BRAZIL
'Tfatiott (fatectoct&
‘‘puUcste
When European adventurers first were contesting the territories of the New World, it became necessary for the Church to establish a line of demarcation between rival Portuguese and Spanish claims. As it happened, the vast territory thus allocated to Portugal made up much of what is today Brazil.
Consequently, alone of all the Americas, Brazil shows (in her language and in other respects) the influence of the Portuguese.
This vast nation is nearer to Africa than to the United States, yet her closest ties are with the latter. She shares common borders with all but two of her thirteen neighbors in South America. Brazil is determined to maintain her ivell-earned and outstanding role in world affairs and international commerce.
Her resources for both war and peace are considered practically unlimited and, once she has overcome certain local difficulties of climate and transportation, can be expected to offer a new frontier for pioneers. Air transport is doing much to bring together all sections of this land of great distances.
16
ThE LARGEST NATION in Latin America (even larger than the U. S.) and fourth largest in the world is the United States of Brazil, a land with vast natural resources, steadily advancing economically under a dynamic administration.
She has mountains, fertile plantations, rarely-explored jungles, arid but mineral-rich deserts, thriving, cosmopolitan cities, and navigable rivers unrivaled for size and number by those anywhere else in the world.
In her thinly populated 3,300,000 square miles live 42,000,000 people, close to half of the population of all South America. Each of seventeen cities can claim more than 45,000 inhabitants, while 20 major ports serve international sea trade. Nine of 10 Brazilians live in the eastern plateau and upland region.
Brazil’s capital, Rio de Janeiro (the "Paris of the New World”), is the second-largest city in South America. The industrial capital of South America and coffee capital of the world, Sao Paulo is one of the fastest-growing cities in the world.
About 75% of the population is employed in agriculture, largely in the South, where cattle, sheep, corn, barley, and coal are found. Stock-raising in Brazil is now a major occupation.
Industrialization on increase • However, a
wave of industrialization, started by the war and expected to continue in peacetime, may call on the talents of many Brazilians. Industrial production has jumped 50% since 1930 and the nation is said to be advancing faster industrially than any other. This is of interest to the United States because this
- '	.¿¿i*