A portrait of THE PACIFIC WORLD, part of A Wo rid of Neighbors
THE largest and deepest ocean in the world is the mighty Pacific, stretching for 12,000 miles across its greatest span and covering nearly one-half the surface area of the earth. At one spot near the Philippines it drops to a depth of 61/2 miles, a cavity large enough to hold Mt. Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, with its peak D/4 miles below the waves.
The vast reaches of the Pacific are flecked with small islands of volcanic and coral origin, so numerous that it has been impossible to catalogue all of them; over 7,000
Copyright 1946, Pan American Airways, Inc.	us!*.
have been listed in the Philippine group alone. There are more than 2,500 main groups, but of these only a few were known to anyone but a geographer a few years ago.
Oriental and tropical beauties • it has taken
World War II to reveal the Pacific in all its breathtaking and majestic splendor; for the past several years, little-known names— Wake, Guam, the Marianas, Kuriles, Marshalls, Okinawa, Iwo Jima — have entered the headlines. The oriental and tropical beauties of this vast area present
THE
PACIFIC WORLD
a newly-discovered Wonderland for the tourist, and its natural wealth offers new opportunities in world commerce.
The Pacific has been the scene of some of the most-dramatic episodes in history. Magellan set out bravely in quest of a short route to the East Indies in 1519, and his wandering voyage led him across uncharted seas, around South America and across to Guam and the Philippines; from there his lieutenant, Del Cano, proceeded to the Moluccas and around the Cape of Good Hope, completing the first trip around the world and proving that the world is round.
In the latter part of the sixteenth century, Spain conquered the Philippines and claimed the Marianas and Carolines ; her explorers undoubtedly visited the Hawaiian Islands, too, but for some unknown reason made nothing of their discovery. Then that great sea rover, Sir Francis Drake, added this ocean to his conquests.
Peaceful and picturesque Sumatra village In the mountain lakes of Sumatra
The island continent of the Commonwealth of Australia is the largest in the Pacific — a land mass almost as large as the United States, and a self-governing Dominion. In many ways it is similar to the United States; its cities, people, habits and customs remind Americans of their own country.
Portrayed on “picture-map” are
Mayon volcano, Luzon Mt. Fujiyama, Japan Wisteria gardens Outrigger canoe Hula dancing Waikiki Beach, Hawaii Hawaiian volcano Iron mines, Mindanao Collecting rice, Luzon Gold mine, P. I.
Spinning hemp rope The China Clipper over Wake Island, 1935 PAA Hotel, Wake “Remember Pearl Harbor”
Inter-island cargoes Parliament Building, Manila
Admiral Dewey—Battle of Manila Bay Old fort, Guam Defense of Wake Island Pineapple and sugar plantations Igorot war canoes Borneo wild life Balinese dancers Magellan exploring Pacific Rice paddies Rubber
Stone carvings,
Easter Island Tribal types Lyre bird
Batak houses, East Indies Blast furnaces, Australia Kangaroo The Anzacs Wellington, N. Z. Kingsford-Smith and “Southern Cross”
Free education and free lunches, N. Z.
Oil refineries, East Indies Batavia, N. E. I. wharfs New Zealand farm Sydney Harbor, Australia
‘Welcome to Hawaii” with the rhythm of the hula
Some of the principal differences, always fascinating to a. visitor, are the aborigines and the strange animals.
The Australian natives, of whom only about 50,000 remain, remind one of the American Indian. So little has been known of them that the area they inhabit has been called a "Never-Never” land. They are called "Blackfel-lows,” and are dark-skinned with black, wavy hair and wide nostrils. Like the American Indian, they have an unusual knowledge of woodcraft and can track man and animal alike with unerring skill. Their weapons are the spear and boomerang. Queer animals also are found on the continent. Of these one is the kangaroo, whose various species range in size from that of a man to that of a tiny kitten. The "teddy,” or woolly, tailless koala is another.
Australia is mainly an agricultural country; wheat, sugar and fruit are its produce. Its sheep ranches are well-known throughout the world, producing over 110,000,000 head annually. Fine-grade wool is exported in record quantities. It is rich in gold, silver, copper, lead, coal and iron.
Volcanoes and geysers • The two islands of
New Zealand lie off the southeast coast of Australia; they, too, comprise a self-governing Dominion. With a climate similar to that of the Atlantic Coast of the United States, they contain some of the most picturesque and unusual scenic displays in the world. Volcanoes climb into the heavens, and at their bases bubble hot springs and geysers.
New Zealand, too, has its quota of strange life for here blossom many rare plants found nowhere else in the world. Among its animals are the kiwi, a bird which can’t fly. Frogs, lizards and fish of primitive species still dwell in its inland waters. New Zealand is a great dairyland. Sheep-and cattle-raising are the islands’ industries; any natural weath besides their original beauty of geysers, lakes and rolling valleys remains largely unrevealed. The Maoris, island natives, are among the most advanced peoples in the world. Their villages, handicrafts and folklore are well-known attractions.
The Philippine Islands, off the coast of Indo-China, are still among the most-beautiful of tropical paradises. Their largest city, and capital of the Philippine Commonwealth, is Manila, on the island of Luzon. Across the bay from it are the Bataan Peninsula and the fortress of Corregidor, names that will live forever in the memory of free men. Among her most famous sights is the Intramuros, the Spanish walled city dating back to the era of the first European settlers. Slumbering volcanoes dot the islands, and the climate, perfect for luxuriant vegetation, fosters all kinds of tropical fruits in abundance, and has made fruitfarming a major industry. However, there are indications of rich mineral deposits of gold, silver, platinum, copper, nickel and chromium not yet fully developed.
LuRE FOR ADVENTURERS • In addition to Australia, New Zealand and the Philippines, the principal island groups of the South Pacific are: The East Indies, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. The first includes Sumatra, Borneo, Java, Celebes and the Moluccas. The second lists New Guinea, the Solomons, New Hebrides, New Caledonia and the Fijis. The third contains the Gilberts, Guam, Marianas, Carolines, Marshalls and Palau Islands. In the Polynesian group are the Hawaiian Islands, Tongas, Samoa, and Tahiti.
The Netherlands East Indies are the rich tropic lands of precious metals, of beautiful silks and rich spices, which have lured adventurers throughout history. But their most recent wealth has been their rubber needed by the world.
Sumatra and Borneo are the largest of the East Indies, and, although Java is third in size, it is the most densely populated. In fact, its population density is among the greatest in the world. Celebes and Moluccas are smaller chains. On the island of Java was discovered the fossil skeleton of a prehistoric man believed to be a predecessor of the human race. The remarkable Buddhist ruins of Borobudur are world-renowned. Forests of the islands are rich in animal and bird life, and apes and gibbons share the company of peacocks and brilliantly-colored jungle fowl. The tiger, elephant, bear, rhinoceros and leopard challenge the big game hunter.
Rice paddy terraces in the Philippine hills
You can feed the kangaroos in the Sydney zoo
In the East Indies, Nature has given of her wealth in greatest measure. In addition to rubber, these islands export oil, fruits, coffee, tea, spices, tobacco, nuts and woods.