I
■' ’ '
The Melanesian group enjoyed little prominence until World War II called it to public attention. The battles of the Coral Sea and the Solomon Islands are now part of its indelible history. Guadalcanal and Bougainville are names that are chapter-headings in American military history.
New Guinea is the second largest island in the world. All islands of this group are tropical in nature with corresponding luxuriant plant and animal life. Control of New Guinea is divided; the Dutch own the West while Australia controls the East. The island is well known for its multitude of brightly-hued birds-of-paradise and cockatoos.
Micronesia derives its name from the fact that its islands are so small. Here, too, many names have been uncovered by war headlines: Truk, the Carolines, Palau, Saipan, Tarawa, etc. These islands will serve primarily as military and air transport bases for trans-oceanic routes.
Polynesia lies northeast of New Zealand and includes the Hawaiian Islands and Samoa. As do no other islands, the Hawaiian chain symbolizes for us the glamour and richness of the tropical South Seas. Their foaming surf, white beaches, languid nights, rustling palms, Diamond Head, Waikiki Beach and hospitable climate invite us to share their beauty. The Hawaiians, themselves, are renowned for their fishing prowess, athletic skill and love of dancing.
EARTH’S BEAUTY SPOT • Huge volcanoes, that have poured forth their lava, bear witness to the origin of the islands. No valuable ores exist in any great quantity; Nature seems to have concentrated her entire energy upon making this particular spot the most beautiful on earth.
Samoa, small mid- Pacific refueling station, has its own identifying characteristics, too; it is the home of the pure Polynesian, one of the most handsome, physically perfect and intelligent of races of the world.
Japan proper consists of four main islands. The capital, Tokyo, with an estimated population of 7,000,000 was one of the three largest cities in the world. Three-fourths of the world’s silk output before the war came from Japan. Mount Fujiyama, cataracts and Shinto shrines were tourist drawing cards.
Pan American World Airways was first to span the vast reaches of the Pacific, in 1935. From that year until the start of World War II Flying Clippers provided regular air service to the story-book Pacific lands.
Volumes could be written concerning the past and present of the Pacific Islands, but their history is, in reality, just beginning. Via the world-famous Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways their natural treasures will be only hours away.
Thrill of thrills — surfboard riding at Waikiki
Ammrs
bysfem. oí tle^Hyiny Clippers
he fascinations of Latin America . . . Alaska’s scenic grandeur... Hawaii’s beauty... Britain’s "Old World” charm ... These and more are only hours away now, thanks to the Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways.
★	In roomy, air-conditioned comfort you can relax and enjoy delicious meals and other complimentary services as you speed between continents at 300 miles per hour.
★	For 19 years Pan American World Airways has been serving the cause of international friendship ... by providing the finest-possible air transportation for all, and by introducing new and improved services.
Pan American Flies to Four Continents
New Flying Clippers include the ultimate in personalized accommodations.
Relax with pleasant companions in the Clipper lounge.