main population groups—Filipinos, the Moros who settled in Mindanao, Palawan, Basilan and the islands of the Sulu Sea, Igorots and Negritos. The Negritos, a Pygmy race, were first to inhabit the Islands and live in primitive fashion in the deep recesses of the forests and jungles. The Igorots dwell in the high hills of the Mountain Province in northern Luzon. The dominant religion of the Islands is Roman Catholic.
LANGUAGE: Although the national official language is Tagalog, more than 60 native languages and dialects are spoken. About one-half of the population, including most Manilans, speak English. Spanish is spoken by another half million Filipinos.
GOVERNMENT: Newest of the republics, the Philippines joined the family of nations on July 4, 1946, with General Manuel Roxas as President. Seat of the government is Malacanan Palace, Manila, except during the hot summer months when it moves to Baguio.
HOTELS: The hotel situation in Manila is most acute. The Manila Hotel is practically the only hotel which was left standing when the Japs withdrew from the city and it had to be repaired extensively.
MANILA: Today, ravaged by repeated bombings, shellings, demolition and fire, Manila bears little resemblance to what it was in the pre-war days when it was the “Pearl of the Orient.” Its beautiful public buildings and universities, its churches and hospitals, its fine hotels and theatres, its beautiful homes and apartment buildings—almost all have been leveled. Intramuros, the historic walled city, is in ruins. Manila’s trees, gardens and lawns have been destroyed. Streets are rutted from the traffic of countless thousands of trucks and other military vehicles. Temporary spans replace the bridges over the Pasig River, which winds through the center of the city. Manila Harbor, one of the world’s best, is still partly filled with the rotting hulks of sunken and half sunken vessels of every size and almost every flag. Even the most optimistic estimate is that it will take 10 years to rebuild Manila.
POINTS OF INTEREST:
Corregidor—in Manila Bay. Now a national shrine.
Intramuros—the Spanish walled city, now in ruins.
Malacanan Palace—seat of the Philippine Government.
Rizal Stadium—Manila’s sports center.
Santo Tomas—one of the oldest universities in the world.
Founded in 1611. Used as a prison during the war.
CURRENCY: The monetary unit is the peso, which is equal to 50c U. S. currency. One centavo equals U. S. There are 100 centavos to a peso.
1942, under the Airport Development Program, Pan American built air bases in Central and South America, in the Azores, Europe, and Africa.
30