This lonely spot has borne many names during its history. The present one is for Captain William Wake of the British trading schooner Prince William Henry, who is generally looked upon as the island’s discoverer. The “discovery” took place in 1796. The Spaniards, however, knew of its existence more than 200 years before. Young Alvaro de Mendana’s two ships, the Los Reyes and the Todos Santos, sighted it on October 2, 1568, charted the island and named it “San Francisco.”
In 1840 a U. S. exploring expedition under Commodore Charles Wilkes in command of the U.S.S. Vincennes paid a visit to Wake, but no claim was made to the desolate place.
The Spanish American War, which sent a whole new stream of sea traffic past the island, was largely responsible for the “re-discovery” of Wake. General Francis V. Greene in July, 1898, in the U. S. Army Transport Thomas, paused briefly and annexed it to the United States. The following year Commander Edward D. Taussigg, U. S. N., stopped there in his ship, the U.S.S. Bennington, and did a more formal job of annexation, complete to a 21-gun salute.
Wake was an important Pan American base up to the time of the Japanese war. On December 8, 1941, the Philippine Clipper had just left Wake for Guam and was only ten minutes out when the first flash was received that Pearl Harbor had been attacked. It immediately returned to Wake and prepared for a reconnaissance flight when the first wave of Jap bombers attacked and strafed the island. Although punctured by many holes, the Clipper was not materially damaged. Fearing a return attack any minute, Captain J. H. Hamilton, the Clipper captain, upon advice from Major James Devereaux, U.S.M.C., prepared for an immediate takeoff for Midway, Honolulu and San Francisco with a capacity load of civilians. One Pan American employee at his own request stayed behind to drive wounded to a first aid station.
The dramatic defense of Wake claimed the lives of many Americans, but the Japs paid a heavy price in men and equipment. When the island finally fell, on December 24, 1941, the captured defenders were interned in Japan for 3K long years.
July 14, 1932, the Wakins-Rymill Expedition sailed for a year's survey in East Greenland for Pan American.
10