CURRENCY: In Japanese currency, 100 sen equal 1 yen. At present, 50 yen equal one United States dollar. There is no limit to the amount of currency you are permitted to bring into Japan, although it must be converted to military script immediately, nor is there any limit to the amount of U. S. money you are permitted to take out of the country. You may convert U. S. money to Japanese money, but you cannot convert Japanese money to U. S. currency. For immediate expenditures it is advisable to carry travelers checks, U. S. Postal money orders, bank drafts, etc. For purchases made through military government facilities, only military script will be accepted.
JAPANESE MEASUREMENTS: Length:
1 SUN equals 1.19 inches 1 SHAKU equals 0.99 foot Weight:
1 MOMME equals 13 ounces Capacity:
1 GO equals 0.38 pint 1 SHO equals 1.9 quarts
1 KEN equals 1.99 yards 1 RI equals 2.44 miles
1 KWAN equals 8.27 pounds
1 TO equals 47.65 gallons 1 KOK U equals 5-12 bushels
HISTORY: Until the 12th Century, Tokyo was an unnamed cluster of fishermen’s huts, sprawled along a marshy shore. Sometime during this century, Yedo Toro, a general in the forces of the Shogun, moved his administrative headquarters there, giving the place the name of Yedo. In 1457 a feudal warrior by the name of Ota Dokwan built a castle in Yedo, and in 1590 the Tokugawa Shogun rebuilt this castle and made Yedo the seat of his government. The marshes were reclaimed, a city was built, and business began to center there. When the Shogunate was abolished in 1868, Yedo was selected to be the capital of the Empire of Japan, and the year following the court was moved there from Kyoto. At that time the name of this city was changed from Yedo to Tokyo, meaning "Eastern Capital.”
When Commodore Perry sailed into Tokyo Bay on July 8, 1853 to negotiate for the opening of trade between Japan and the United States, Tokyo was still called Yedo. From Uroga, on the western side of the bay, he made contact with Prince Idzu, presenting him with a letter from the President of the United States suggesting a trade treaty. In 1923 Tokyo suffered a disastrous earthquake and fire which destroyed an area of twenty-five square miles and many of the city’s bridges. By 1930 the city had been almost entirely rebuilt with wide streets to check any future conflagrations and with fireproof buildings in certain zones. Before the war it was among the finest and most modern cities in the world.
March 27, 1935, the SS North Haven sailed on "colonizing" cruise to set up working bases for Pan American at Hawaii, Midway, Wake and Guam.
13