golf links; Repulse Bay, lying at the base of immense headlands; Shaukiwan, the old Chinese port that was once a lair for coastal pirates; Paddy’s Market, a shop section of Hong Kong that has been compared to the Thieves Market in Shanghai, where you can buy almost any kind of Chinese ware; and Victoria Peak, 1,823 feet above the harbor entrance, reached by means of tram.
There are many fine clubs in the city where you may enjoy such recreations as yachting, swimming, golf, polo, tennis, riding, and shooting. Among these clubs are the Royal Hong Kong Golf Club, Shek-O Golf Club, the Jockey Club, and the Peak Club. There are also several social clubs in Hong Kong, such as the Hong Kong Club, the American, and the Club Lusitano.
KOWLOON: On Nathan Road, main thoroughfare of the city of Kowloon, you will find many shops featuring articles such as rattan ware, silks, and hand-carved novelties. When you are on the peninsula it will be well worth while to visit the old city of Kowloon with its ancient walls, gardens and the temple of Hau Wong. In the New Territories beyond Kowloon you will see rice fields, sugar plantations and pineapple groves. Points worth visiting are: the high Tai Mo Shan (3,124 feet); the coast of Taipo; Kam Tin, the oldest settlement in the colony (a typical Chinese village); and the ancient Buddhist Monastery of Tsing Shan.
MACAU: A visit to the Portuguese Colony of Macau, four hours by ship for Hong Kong, is also worth the time. Ships now leave Hong Kong twice daily for Macau, at 8 A.M. and at 5 P.M. Prices as a whole are cheaper in Macau than in Hong Kong and large quantities of foodstuffs have been imported there from Lisbon. The city is a photographer’s paradise. In Macau he can obtain excellent pictures of old shops, ricksha boys, junks in the harbor, ancient churches, net fishing and many other novel Oriental scenes. One of the oldest European colonies in this part of the world (the Portuguese have been in Macau since 1557), the city offers a wide variety of entertainment from good restaurants and movie houses to cabarets and gambling houses.
CANTON: Canton is easily accessible from Hong Kong by ship, rail or air. This old city was known to western civilization as far back as the 10th Century, and early Portuguese and British traders dealt with its merchants when trade routes were first established with the Orient. Here you will see the Chan Ka Tsz Temple, built in 1890 at the cost of one million dollars; the Five-Story Pagoda which houses the city’s museum and from which you will have an excellent view of Canton and its countryside; the White Cloud Temple, in the hill country, about a half-hour’s drive from the city; the City of the Dead, where deceased Chinese are laid in state before burial; and the Water Clock, eight centuries old and still in use as a time-keeping instrument.
March 17, 1937, Pan American began the first survey flight between San Francisco and Auckland, New Zealand.
19