CUSTOMS: Early Polynesians, living close to nature, in surroundings where flowers were always abundant, adorned themselves with wreaths fashioned from the brightest and most fragrant blossoms. In Hawaii this charming national custom still flourishes. These garlands are known as leis (pronounced “lays”), and in any of the islands there are as many different kinds of leis as there are flowers. At dances and other social functions, flower necklaces are worn instead of corsage bouquets. Carnations and ginger blossoms are popular for leis.
SOUVENIRS AND CURIOS: Among the souvenirs obtainable are lamp bases, salad bowls, canape trays, Hawaiian figures, Hawaiian furniture, table service and ornaments, all manufactured from Hawaiian “koa” wood, Hawaiian pottery, hula skirts, hula dancing dolls, Hawaiian perfumes, leis, Hawaiian semi-precious stones and rare woods.
PHOTOGRAPHY: Hawaii is a photographer’s paradise. Complete laboratories for the processing of Kodachrome movie film are situated in the Islands.
CROSSING THE INTERNATIONAL DATE LINE
Between Honolulu and Wake, your Clipper will cross the International Date Line. This is an imaginary line which follows approximately the 180th Meridian, on opposite sides of which the reckoning of the date differs by one day. As one travels from west to east, standard time advances one hour for each 15°, that is, each 24th circle of longitude about the earth. When you pass completely around the earth you gain 24 hours or one complete day. The 180th Meridian is chosen as the one at which the change in date should be made, because it is farthest from the first, or Greenwich, Meridian and because, passing near the center of the Pacific Ocean, it avoids inhabited islands where it might cause serious confusion.
The date on the eastern side of the line is one day behind the date on the western side. In order to compensate for this time change, when you cross the International Date Line westbound you drop one day out of the week and eastbound add a day. Thus, in flying from Wake to Honolulu you have two Wednesdays or Thursdays, as the case may be.
1932, Pan American placed into service the first American four-engine transports.
8