HONG KONG <e-726 Miles— —MANILA
1600 Miles-----> GUAM
The Philippine Archipelago is composed of more than 7,000 islands, stretching 1,150 miles. They lie about 7,000 miles west of San Francisco and 700 miles east from Indo-China across the China Sea. Only about 460 have an area of more than one square mile and their total land area (114,400 sq. miles) is about the size of California. The major islands are roughly divided into three sections. On the north is the large island of Luzon, closely flanked by the smaller island of Mindoro. In the middle of the archipelago, with the Sibugan Sea separating it from Luzon, is the Visayan group, consisting of Leyte and Samar on the east and Cebu, Negros, Bohol and Panay on the west.
The islands are largely mountainous with many ancient and inactive volcanoes, highest of which is Mt. Apo (10,312 feet) on Mindanao. About half of the land is forest covered. On the west side of Luzon is the Cordillera central mountain range and running the entire length of the eastern coast is the lower Sierra Madre range. Between these two ranges lies the Cagayan Valley, which is devoted mainly to growing tobacco and corn. The broad, level and fertile north central plain of Luzon lies south of the Cordillera, extending from Manila Bay to Lingayan Gulf. This territory, where sugar, rice and coconuts are cultivated and which includes the city of Manila, is the dominant region of the Islands. All of the valleys and coasts through the Philippines are well populated and the fertile land is carefully tilled. Rice leads all crops in value and the rice terraces of northern Luzon are one of the world’s greatest engineering feats.
Principal beast of burden is the carabao (water buffalo), but Filipino ponies, which seem to be tireless, are a common sight.
CLIMATE: The climate is not unduly hot for the tropics, but during much of the year it is oppressive because of the high temperature, which is around 80°, and the high relative humidity. However, you can always cool off at Baguio, former beautiful summer capital, which is at an elevation of 4,756 feet, or at Tagaytay, overlooking Lake Taal, a short drive from Manila over an excellent highway.
On the east coast rain falls from mid-April until October; on the west coast, from November until early April. Manila’s average rainfall is 79 inches; Baguio’s, 250 inches.
THE AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Nichols Field, a military airport, and one of the most important airfields in the Far East. It witnessed some of the most historic scenes of recent years, including the arrival of the Japanese emissaries to receive the peace terms.
THE POPULATION: The Philippine Islands have a population of around 17,000,000, predominantly Malayan in ancestry. There are four
1 942, Pan American Pacific-Alaska and Atlantic Divisions operated for the Navai Air Transport Service while its Latin American and later its Africa-Orient Division operated for the Air Transport Command.
29