TOKYO <---2000 Miles - -----WAKE---------- ---2315 Miles-► HONOLULU
Wake Island is a small V-shaped atoll almost lost in the world’s largest ocean. A circular coral reef protects the three islets — Peale, Wake and Wilkes — which comprise the island and whose combined area is about four square miles. From the air the ever curling white surf marks the reef which separates the blue of the Pacific from the emerald green lagoon within. The three islets are separated by narrow channels.
THE TERMINAL: When you land at the airport on Wake islet you will still see evidence of the Japanese occupation. Points of interest have been signed by the Navy. The anchor from the S.S. Libelle in front of the present passenger quarters is all that was salvaged from the former Airways Hotel, which was located on Peale islet.
CLIMATE: Wake’s climate is considered excellent and compares favorably with Honolulu except that it is sometimes slightly warmer. The average annual temperature is about 85°. During the typhoon season of late summer and fall, Wake is occasionally subject to winds of hurricane velocity accompanied by high ocean waves.
VEGETATION: The island is completely dependent upon rains and mechanical distilleries for its fresh water. Vegetation consists mainly of heavy brush. Experiments in hydroponics—farming with chemicals —have been made at Wake with some success.
FISH AND FISHING: Wake provides excellent fishing. The waters outside the reef hold sporting fish of a size to challenge the most skillful angler. The lagoon itself contains one of the most remarkable collections of small tropical fish to be found anywhere in the world. Their color and variety are a source of never ceasing wonder to visitors.
BURIED TREASURE?: In March of 1866 the German bark Libelle, out of Honolulu for Hong Kong, ran into a storm and piled up on the reef at Wake. The precious cargo, valued at nearly a million dollars, part of it in quicksilver, the remainder in gold bullion, was carried ashore safely by the ship’s captain and, according to some stories, is still buried on Wake.
GOVERNMENT: On December 29, 1934, a Presidential order placed Wake Island under the jurisdiction of the Navy Department. The ranking resident military officer at the outbreak of the Japanese war was Commander Winfield Scott Cunningham.
HISTORY: Wake Island was uninhabited until overnight it became an important stop on the airway map of the world. The change came in 1935 with the arrival there of the Pan American World Airways chartered steamer North Haven. Following the establishment of a commercial air station at Midway, she came to Wake to perform a similar feat.
June 15, 1932, Pan American, University of Michigan and the West Greenland Expedition sailed for a year's survey in the Greenland area.
9