There are many excellent clubs in Shanghai. Among them are the Columbia Country Club (American), one of Shanghai’s best dining spots, where visitors may bowl, swim, or play tennis; the French Club, or “Cercle Sportif Français,’’ where cocktails and tea are served each afternoon, and also where guests may play tennis or swim; and the Shanghai Club, which claims to have the longest bar in the world. A delightful place to spend an evening is the Skylight Garden, on top of the fourteen-story Park Hotel.
There are several parks in Shanghai worth visiting, among them the Hongkew Park and Public Garden in the northern part of the city, the French Park in the former French Concession, and Jessfield Park at the junction of the Yu Yuen and Brenan Roads. Places such as the ancient towns of Swochow and Hangchow, and the seaside resort of Tsingtao are also well worth the trip.
HOTELS: Shanghai has a number of fine hotels. Those offering the best accommodations include the Cathay, Palace, Park, Métropole, and Pacific Hotels.
TRANSPORTATION: Throughout the city the visitor may easily obtain rickshaw, pedi-cab, or taxi transportation. Conveyances are plentiful and the cost of service reasonable.
CURRENCY: The official rate of exchange at present is approximately 12,000 CNC for each dollar of United States currency. On the open market, the rate of exchange is higher. The Chinese Government has recently established regulations whereby incoming passengers are not allowed to bring in over $100.00 U. S. (or its equivalent in foreign currency). Letters of credit, travelers checks, drafts, etc., can be brought in without limit or being declared.
HISTORY : As far back as 1000 A. D., Shanghai already was a prosperous port, and at that time was known as “Shanghai chin’’or “market of Shanghai.” Little was known of this city until 1831, when Dr. Charles Gutzlaff sailed from Canton in a Chinese junk, and after visiting several ports along the coast, stopped at Shanghai to inquire about the possibilities of trade with Europe. So favorable were his reports, the next year the British East India Company, already with sailing routes to China, attempted to negotiate a trade agreement with Shanghai’s governor, but failed.
With the culmination of the Anglo-Chinese War, however, and the signing of the Treaty of Nanking in 1842, five Chinese ports, including Shanghai, were opened to foreign trade. The next year the English established a settlement to the north of the ancient city, and later the French and Americans also obtained concessions for settlements in Shanghai. The old British and American settlements were expanded in 1893 to form what had been known until the war as the International Settlement.
1936, Pan American instituted the first flight fatigue medical research program.
15