MANILA«--1600 Miles- -----GUAM------------- ---1510 Miles-> WAKE
Guam is a sunny, tropic isle of 225 square miles, rising 1,300 feet out of the sea at the southern tip of the Marianas chain, 1,300 miles south of Japan. Almost as large as the other 14 islands together, it is the largest island in the North Pacific between the Philippines and Hawaii and between Japan and New Guinea—an area of some 10,000,000 square miles. It-also has the best natural harbor in this vast expanse—Apra, on the west coast. The southern half of Guam is volcanic and hilly, the northern half consists of a broad, reef-limestone plateau. The principal product is copra, but coffee, cocoa, sugar cane and rice are also grown.
CLIMATE: Guam’s climate is warm and damp as in most tropical regions, but on the whole, healthy and pleasant. At night there’s usually a cool sea breeze. The yearly temperature averages about 85° and the average rainfall is around 90 inches. From November through June is the dry season and from July to November, the rainy season.
INHABITANTS: The present natives of Guam, or Chamorros as they are called, are descendants of the original Chamorros living on Guam when the Spaniards arrived, who were of an ancient Malay strain. They are a gay, friendly people with a love for music. The native population of the island is around 23,000. Most of the Chamorros are devout Catholics and their culture has been considerably Hispanized. Farming is the basic vocation of the natives, although a considerable number live in the towns. Cock fighting is one of their favorite amusements.
LANGUAGE: The native language is still Chamorro, but it has been modified considerably by contacts with Spanish, Tagalog and English. Most natives, especially those under 35, have a knowledge of English, but on the streets and in the native homes Chamorro is the spoken tongue.
AIRPORT: Your Clipper lands at the Naval Air Station, Agana.
DIVERSIONS: Guam possesses good fishing grounds. Swimming is popular, but the beaches are only fair.
GOVERNMENT: The island is under the direction of the Navy Department and is administered as a naval station. The Governor of the island is a naval officer appointed by the Secretary of the Navy to serve for a two year term.
AGANA: The seat of Government is Agana, the island’s principal city, which had a prewar population of around 11,000. It is situated eight miles from the anchorage in Apra Harbor, near the center of the 30-mile-long island, and formerly consisted of thatched native huts,
December, 1941, Pan American began operating military transports for the U. S. Army, Navy, and Marines.
27