SHANGHAI <-1095 Miles- TOKYO	----2000 Miles-> WAKE
TOKYO, capital of Japan, is located on the eastern side of the main Japanese island of Honshu, at the head of Tokyo Bay. A city with an estimated population of six and one-half million people, Tokyo is the center of Japanese government and trade, and at present is the headquarters for the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers occupying Japan. The city is divided roughly into two parts, the Uplands on its northern and western side, which consists of gentle hills that rise between thirty and one hundred feet, and the Lowlands, which lie on either side of the River Sumida. Main port facilities for the city of Tokyo are located in Yokohama, eighteen miles distant, above the western entrance to Tokyo Bay.
Japan’s possessions now comprise an area of approximately 146,600 square miles and have an estimated population of about 75,000,000 people. Only about one-fifth of Japan’s lands are tillable. The remainder are almost entirely mountainous. At present the average Japanese farmer has at his disposal only two acres of land, one of which he owns and the other he rents. Farm lands are cultivated intensively, producing two or more crops during the summer season, but fail to grow enough products to take care of the nation’s needs. As a result of bombings and shortages Japan’s industrial production was only 31% of normal directly after the war. Since then there has been a gradual improvement in production, but it is still far behind pre-war levels. Japan produces less than half the coal to meet her needs, housing shortages are still severe, large numbers of people continue to have no means of livelihood, and health in general is still below par. There are shortages in such articles as cigarettes, tooth paste, film, soap, shoes, clothing, and liquor.
CLIMATE: Tokyo’s weather is almost exactly the counterpart of Washington, D. C. Seasons are: Spring, from March to May; Summer, from June to August; Autumn, from September to November; Winter, from December to February. Temperatures range from 25° to 85°. The typhoon season is from June until December. Light or heavy clothing is worn, according to the season.
THE AIRPORT: Your point of landing in Japan is Haneda Airport (pronounced Hah-nay-duh) designated by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers occupying Japan as the international airport of entry. It is approximately twelve miles from downtown Tokyo, and is almost midway between Tokyo and Yokohama.
MILITARY GOVERNMENT: All activities in Japan are directed by the occupying forces, under the command of the General for the Allied Powers. These activities include all movements of persons within Japan, housing, clothing, food, medical supplies, utilities, and transportation. A military government permit as well as a passport is required of each individual visiting Tokyo.
July 9, 1933, the Pan American survey expedition over Labrador, Greenland, and Iceland was commenced by Colonel and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh.
11