class docks, cranes and godowns (warehouses). The city’s wide streets are crowded with rickshaws, buffalo carts, British and American cars and busses. Streetcars and taxis also provide transportation.
HOTELS: The best hotel in Calcutta is the Great Eastern, which is only a short distance from Clive Street—the principal business district. Other hotels include the Grand and the Continental.
WHAT TO SEE IN CALCUTTA:
Indian Museum—with priceless relics of Indian culture.
Eden Gardens—principal gathering place of Calcutta’s society.
Royal Botanical Gardens—includes world’s largest Banyan tree.
Victoria Memorial—marble monument to Queen Victoria.
University of Calcutta—one of the world’s largest universities.
Thieves’ Market—central market place.
RECREATION: Calcutta offers facilities for golf, polo, rowing, tennis, cricket and football. The city has good theatres and a race course.
RELIGION: The two leading religions are Hindu and Moslem. Religion plays an important part in the life of the people.
GOVERNMENT: The subcontinent of India is divided into two parts—the Dominion of India, which consists of eleven provinces containing more than half of the total area and about three-fourths of the population, and the Dominion of Pakistan. The Dominion of India is primarily a Hindu state while Pakistan is primarily a Moslem state.
CURRENCY: The monetary unit is the Rupee, equal to approximately 33c in U. S. currency. One Rupee (silver) equals 16 annas.
HISTORY: In early times, India was inhabited by a negroid race. It was conquered by invaders from the north, called Dravidians, who spread all over India.
About 1500 B.C., India was subject to a series of invasions by light skinned Nomads, called Aryans. These newcomers brought their own literature, wrote Sanskrit and developed a complicated form of worship which became Hinduism. They settled in the rich Ganges valley and built Benares, their holy city.
August, 1941, President Roosevelt announced that he had made arrangements with Pan American to ferry military aircraft across the South Atlantic to the Allies in North Africa.
25