tiled adobe Spanish houses and a few modern buildings. The town was pounded to rubble in the recapture of the island. Plans for a new modern city to be built on the site of the former city are under way.
HISTORY: Guam was a teeming tropical paradise on March 6, 1521, when Magellan dropped anchor in the lee of Cocos Island on his historic, round-the-world voyage of discovery. The islands were first named Lateen Sail Islands, because of the huge triangular sails on the native boats, then the Ladrones (Robber Islands) and finally the Marianas in honor of Maria Ana de Austria. Spain formally took possession of the Marianas in 1565- Final conquest was achieved 30 years later.
Captain Henry Glass of the U. S. Navy, proceeding to Manila with the cruiser Charleston and three troop transports to aid Admiral Dewey during the war of 1898, paused long enough to effect the surrender of the island on June 21, 1898. It was ceded to the United States in the same year.
As a U. S. possession, Guam was placed under naval government, but Guam did not assume world importance until Pan American’s transpacific service used it as a stepping stone for air transport to the Philippines and the Orient. The entire population of the island was out to greet the Clipper when it landed at Sumay in the early fall of 1935- The following year, Pan American erected a small but modern hotel at the airport for Clipper passengers, the only hotel on the island.
Guam was the first U. S. possession to fall into the hands of the Japanese following a bombing the morning of December 8th, 1941. The first bomb hit the Pan American hotel and completely destroyed it. Cable and radio communications were cut by the Japs and on December 13, 1941, the Navy Department in Washington indicated that Americans captured on Guam included 400 Navy men, 11 Pan American employees, 155 Marines and a number of civilian workers.
In July of 1944, after 17 days of intensive bombardment, U. S. forces made an amphibious landing on Guam and the following month, after bitter fighting, the island was restored to the United States. Ten months after its recapture it became the greatest forward port area in the world, and before the war terminated Agana’s airport was handling more traffic than La Guardia Field in New York.
December, 1941, Pan American world-wide radio and meteorological stations were turned over to the United Nations military organizations.
28