PRICES : Prices in Manila are generally several times what they were before the war. This is especially true of clothing, transportation, cigarettes and souvenirs.
AMUSEMENTS: Filipinos enjoy the movies and you will find many movie houses, some of them quite modern, in Manila. Basketball and tennis are popular sports and cock fighting is a national pastime. Filipino entertainment is usually excellent, as almost all Filipinos dance and play musical instruments from the time they are youngsters. Night clubs are numerous and usually quite expensive.
SOUVENIRS: Filipinos are expert at handcraft and you will find many finely woven fabrics and articles made of fibres of native trees and plants. Hand-carved wood shoes, Batangas knives and miniature Nipa huts make interesting souvenirs.
HISTORY : The Philippines were discovered by Magellan in 1521. A year later he was killed in battle near the island of Cebu. From 1521 until 1800, when Spain gained complete control of the islands, the history is one of more or less constant strife. In 1894, under the leadership of Emil Aguinaldo, the Filipinos revolted against certain abuses under the Spanish regime.
When the United States declared war on Spain in 1898, Admiral George Dewey destroyed the Spanish fleet in Manila Bay. Manila itself fell to the land forces of the American Army. As one of the peace terms, Spain ceded the Philippines to the United States and the United States paid Spain $20,000,000 in return.
Manuel Quezon, brilliant and beloved Filipino statesman, became the first President of the Philippine Commonwealth on September 17, 1935- Not long after his inauguration another inauguration of importance to the Philippines took place—the flight of the first Pan American Clipper to Manila, reducing to 60 flying hours, instead of 17 days by the fastest steamship, transit time between the United States and the Philippines. Manila served as an important Pan American base until the war started.
On December 8, 1941, the Japs attacked the Philippines. The U. S. and Filipino forces were not prepared to defend the islands and on April 11, 1942, 35,000 troops surrendered at Bataan. On May 6th came the fall of Corregidor. The initial Japanese attack cut the main lines of communications and while no Clippers were caught at Manila, the entire personnel of Pan American’s hase were among those interned by the Japanese. The office of Pan American in the Manila Hotel was left intact by the Japs, even to the posters on the walls. The Americans, under General Douglas MacArthur, landed on the island of Leyte in October of 1944. Luzon was invaded in January of 1945 and Manila was liberated the following month.
On July 4, 1946, the Philippines became an independent nation.
January, 1947, Pan American began commercial service between the United States and Sydney, Australia.
31