HONG KONG <---777 Miles- SHANGHAI--------- --1095 Miles-> TOKYO
Shanghai, “Crossroads of the Far East,” is located on the northwest bank of the Whangpoo River, approximately sixty miles inland from the Upper China Sea. A cosmopolitan city of some 5,000,000 people, it controls almost half of China’s economic life, and through its port serves a total of over one hundred and eighty million Chinese. Lying about midway between Europe and North America, and between Malaya and the southern reaches of Siberia, it is easily accessible both to eastern and western trade. A modern, industrial city with facilities rivaling those of most European and American cities, Shanghai not only controls a large proportion of China’s trade routes, it is a center of manufacturing and banking.
CLIMATE: Shanghai’s climate is semi-tropical. Temperatures may climb well over 100 degrees in the summer and may fall below freezing in winter. Humidity is unusually high during hot weather. While visiting Shanghai it is best to carry woolens for winter wear and cottons for summer. For long stays it is well to take along clothes of sufficient variety to take care of seasonal changes.
THE AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Lungwa Airport, on the bank of the Whangpoo River. The airport is about 15 miles from Shanghai’s business district.
THE CITY OF SHANGHAI: Before the war Shanghai was divided into six main areas, which still carry their designations: the former International Settlement, comprising the original British and United States Concessions; the former French Concession; and Greater Shanghai, which is made up of the outlying suburbs of Chapei, Pootung, and Nantou. The International Settlement and the French Concession comprise Shanghai’s central districts, from which the city conducts its international trade. Residential districts are located on the long avenues of the original French Concession, and outside the city proper at Hungjao. Some of the finest homes in Shanghai are on the Avenue Petain. Factories and warehouses are found mostly in the eastern districts of Pootung and Nantou.
OF INTEREST IN SHANGHAI: Most of the city’s life centers about Nanking Road, the “Broadway” of Shanghai. At its juncture with the Bund, or waterfront, are the Cathay and Palace Hotels. From here it continues west, bisecting Shanghai’s main business and shopping centers. Along Nanking Road you will find the city’s finest department stores; around it revolves the greater part of Shanghai night life. At the end of Nanking Road is the Shanghai Race Course where you may enjoy such sports as golf, tennis, or bowling, and, during the season, horse racing. On Yates Road there are dress shops and stores featuring silks, laces, Swatow linens, Fouchow lacquer articles, and fine lingerie.
November 22, 1935, the CHINA CLIPPER took off on the first air mall flight from San Francisco to Manila.
14