WAKE <------2315 Miles
HONOLULU —2400 miles--------> SAN FRANCISCO
"Ua Mau Ke Ea 0 Ka Aina I Ka Pono"
“the life of the land is preserved in righteousness”
From the moment you catch your first Clipper view of the Hawaiian Islands, you know you’re going to fall in love with this Polynesian Paradise. Here is a land of song and laughter—of sunshine and flowers— of mountains, waterfalls and palm-fringed beaches. Volcanic in origin, the Islands are situated near the northern limits of the tropics. As a result, the climate is so pleasant that the Hawaiians have no word for weather. The average temperature is 75°.
OAHU (“Gathering Place”): Almost square in shape, with an area of 604 square miles, Oahu is third largest of the islands and includes two important mountain systems. On the lee side of the island is Honolulu, the capital.
With an estimated population of nearly 300,000, Honolulu is a cosmopolitan, typical American city with many office buildings, palatial banks and fine hotels. From near Diamond Head it spreads for eight miles along the waterfront. The business district centers around Fort and King Streets. Between the city and Diamond Head is Waikiki, the beach and shopping district.
THE AIRPORT: Your Clipper lands at the Honolulu Airport, at Keehi, which was used throughout the war as a Naval air station and which eventually is to be one of the world’s finest and in keeping with Honolulu’s position as air crossroads of the Pacific.
HOTELS: Like most large cities in the world, Honolulu has a critical hotel situation. Not only is it difficult to secure accommodations at hotels of first choice, but it is usually necessary for travelers to share a room, wherever space is obtainable, and sometimes to sleep in dormitory type facilities. Following is a list of leading hotels: Alexander Young (Downtown)	Niumalu (Waikiki)
Blaisdell (Downtown)	Pleasanton (Downtown)
Halekulani (Waikiki)	Royal Hawaiian (Waikiki)
Moana (Waikiki)
WHAT TO SEE: Hawaii is a tourist’s delight. There are many interesting auto trips on Oahu, including the so-called “Around the Island” trip—an 80-mile circle of the interior. Among the points of interest on Oahu are:
Aloha Tower—at the foot of Fort Street.
Bishop Museum—off North King Street.
Diamond Head—a gigantic extinct crater formation.
Government Nursery—at Keeauwakee and King Streets.
July 27, 1931, Pan American sponsored the survey flight across Alaska to the Orient, flown by Colonel and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh.
5