BRIEF HISTORY OF HAWAII: According to legend, the Hawaiian Islands were discovered by Hawaiiloa, a famous fisherman and navigator. The original Hawaiians in great double canoes supposedly made the world’s greatest trans-oceanic migration from Tahiti to Hawaii.
While searching for a northern passage from the Pacific to the Atlantic, Captain James Cook, the distinguished English navigator and explorer, sighted the Island of Oahu on January 18, 1778. At first worshipped as a god, he was killed by a native chieftain on the island of Hawaii the following year.
In 1782 King Kamehameha, the Napoleon of the Pacific, came to the throne of one of the then four kingdoms. With help of firearms and foreign advisers he succeeded in conquering all of the islands except Kauai and Niihau, which were ceded to him in 1810. He then organized the government, suppressed crime, and encouraged industry.
Under Kamehameha III (1824-1853) constitutional government was introduced and a treaty with the United States was concluded. During the reign of Kalakaua, (1872-1891), the last of the Hawaiian kings, commercial reciprocity treaties with the United States were negotiated. Upon his death in 1891, his sister, Princess Liliuokalani, was proclaimed queen. On June 4th, 1894, the Republic of Hawaii was proclaimed, with Stanford B. Dole as President. Four years later, on July 7, Hawaii became a Territory of the United States.
On April 16, 1935 all of Honolulu turned out to greet the first Pan American Airways Clipper, with leis, songs and hula dances. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Pan American suspended its regular Pacific service, but operations were resumed immediately in behalf of the Naval Air Transport Service. NATS utilized the old PAA base in Pearl City until the new International Airport on Keehi Lagoon was completed.
LANGUAGE: Although English is the language spoken throughout Hawaii, both Islanders and visitors often find occasion to use Hawaiian words. With few exceptions, the cities, towns and villages, and most of the streets bear Hawaiian names. Following are typical Hawaiian
words and expressions:
Aloha or Aloha nui—common everyday greeting.
Hauoli maoli au—I am happy. Hoi a ehia keial—What time is it? Kapu—Keep out.
Luau (lu-ow)—Hawaiian feast. Mahalo—Thanks.
Maikai—I am fine.
Malama pono—Be careful.
Pau (pow)—Finished, or done. Poi—A potato-tasting paste eaten with the fingers. Wahine—Girl.
Wikiwiki—Hurry up.
1931, Pan American developed and installed direction finders on Pan American aircraft.
7