SHANGHAI <--510 Miles-
OKINAWA
1430 Miles-----» GUAM
Okinawa is the central island of the Ryukyu (Liuchiu) chain, which stretches between Japan and Formosa. It is 67 miles long and 3 to 10 miles wide. Made up of plateaus and ridges, the island’s terrain becomes more mountainous as one travels north.
CLIMATE: Okinawa’s climate is semi-tropical, with heavy summer rainfall. Winds frequently reach a high velocity and to protect their property Okinawans surround their farmsteads with stone walls or windbreaks of trees or bamboo. The temperature at Naha ranges from 60° in January to 82° in July.
POPULATION: Although small in area, Okinawa has a population of nearly half a million. The people are believed to have some Ainu blood in them, with a considerable mixture of Japanese and perhaps Chinese.
LANGUAGE: The language of Okinawans is similar to an archaic Japanese.
AGRICULTURE: Okinawa is predominantly agricultural and principal products are sugar cane and sweet potatoes.
NAHA: Before the war Naha was a flourishing community of 66,000, occupying two square miles in the southwestern section of Okinawa. At war’s end hardly a building in this modern capital and seaport was left standing and the entire populace either left or had been evacuated. Only miles from Naha is Shuri, the ancient capital of Liuchiu and site of a large Buddhist shrine.
THE AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Naha Airport, a few miles outside Naha. Once a commercial airport, it was taken over by the military during the war.
HISTORICAL: For many years the Liuchiu Islands paid tribute to both China and Japan. This continued until the 1870’s when the Japanese forbade the King of Liuchiu to send any more tribute bearing missions to China.
In 1879 Japan announced the formal annexation of the Liuchius despite protests from China who called upon the United States to intervene. After conferring with high officials of both governments, President Grant suggested that the matter be settled by direct negotiations.
One of the bloodiest battlegrounds of World War II, Okinawa suffered such complete devastation that the American Military Government had a full-time job of reconstruction on its hands in trying to restore normal living conditions.
June 26, 1947, Pan American began the first scheduled Round-the-World Flights, now a bi-weekly service.
32
PRINTED IN U. S. A.