CALCUTTA < 1002 Miles--BANGKOK—1083 Miles ► HONG KONG
The Kingdom of Siam is situated in southeastern Asia and is bounded by Indo-China, Burma, Malaya and the Gulf of Siam. Approximately the size of France, it encompasses an area of about 200,000 square miles, and has a population of about 18 million. The inhabitants are largely Siamese, although there is a substantial Chinese population and also many Laos, Burmese, Cambodians, Annamese and Indians.
Siam is one of the great rice producing countries of the world. Her principal exports are rice, teak, tin, rubber, hides and spices.
The most important river in the country is the Menam Chao Phya, which means “Mother of Waters.” Its fertile valley presents scenes of tropical beauty, with luscious vegetation and paddy fields.
Industrial development is small. Siam’s chief manufacturing enterprises are based on handicrafts.
CLIMATE: Siam has a monsoon climate. The dry season lasts from November to April, which is usually the hottest month of the year. Temperatures are moderated considerably with the arrival of the rainy season, in May. December and January are usually the coolest months. In Northern Siam, the climate is considerably cooler than it is in Bangkok.
THE PEOPLE: The Siamese are a happy, hospitable people. The typical Siamese is of medium height. He has an olive skin and is darker than the Chinese, but fairer than the Malay. The national costume is the panung and the pasin, cotton garments which cover the body from the waist to the knees and are worn by both sexes, although in the cities, of course, Western-style clothes are widely worn.
FOOD: The chief article of diet is rice, with fish an important secondary food. Many varieties of delicious tropical fruit and vegetables are available in Bangkok, which offers all the essential foodstuffs for a complete “Western” diet.
RELIGION: The great majority of Siamese are devout Buddhists. Buddhism is the state religion and plays an important part in the social, cultural and economic life of the people. There are Buddhist “wats” (temples) in every village, which serve as church, town hall, school, recreation center and home for the aged and poor.
July 3, 1937, Pan American made the first commercial survey flight between New York and Southampton, England, completing the trip in 22 hours and 29 minutes.
21