AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Don Muang Airfield, one of the most modern in Southeast Asia. It is 18 miles north of the city of Bangkok.
BANGKOK: Capital and principal city, Bangkok is the seat of all the government departments and the center of intellectual, commercial and industrial life of the country. It has a population of almost one million and is the largest city in southeastern Asia. The capital was moved to Bangkok in 1768. Up to about 1870, Bangkok was practically without roads, hence the network of canals or “klongs” which were the main arteries of traffic and accounted for the city being called the “Venice of the East.” A considerable part of the population lives on the river (Chao Phya) in picturesque floating houses and small crafts.
HOTELS: Hotel facilities in Bangkok are better than in most cities of the Far East. The Ratanakosindr, the Trocadero and the Suriyanondr are modern and relatively inexpensive. The Oriental Hotel is typical of British colonial establishments.
ATTRACTIONS: Siam is a tourist’s paradise, with natural beauties, historic ruins, antiquities and fine arts. There are numerous shrines and temples of surpassing beauty and splendor. In Bangkok alone there are over 360 such temples or “wats.”
Following are some of the sights well worth seeing in Bangkok:
The Grand Palace—a walled town over a mile square, containing the King’s Palace, famed Wat Phra Keo and the Emerald Buddha, and many government buildings.
Golden Mount—an excellent viewpoint. Built by King Rama III and King Mongkut.
Wat Po—famous temple with the huge Reclining Buddha.
Wat Arun—“Temple of Dawn,’’ a landmark across the Chao Phya from Bangkok.
The Snake Park—containing a variety of snakes, including cobras.
National Museum and Library.
RECREATION: In Bangkok, there are two race courses, two golf courses and one very good swimming pool (Royal Bangkok Sports Club). Seaside resorts, popular in the hot season, can be reached in several hours by auto or train.
May 3, 1938, Pan American began scheduled air mail service between Juneau and Fairbanks via Whitehorse, Yukon Territory.
22