FACILITIES IN TOKYO: Electric power in Tokyo is fairly dependable. Utilities are operated free by the occupying forces. Electric refrigerators and ice boxes are available in limited quantities, and although the supply is small, ice is safe to use. Telephone facilities are available to private individuals, and wireless, telephone, and cable service to the United States is easily obtainable. Furniture is available in limited quantities. Retail meats and groceries are under Army control. Soil is suitable for growing kitchen garden produce, but seeds are still scarce. The water supply is pure.
Caution: Do not eat raw vegetables, and be sure to use wire screening and mosquito nets.
OF INTEREST IN TOKYO: Although a great part of Tokyo was destroyed during the war, an intensive clean-up campaign has cleared most of the bombed areas and rebuilding is progressing at a moderate rate. Damaged sections now appear only as vacant spaces and open lots. Many sections of the city remain intact, including large areas of the residential and main business districts. Undamaged are such places as the Imperial Hotel, the American Embassy (which suffered only damage to the roof), Ginza, the city’s principal shopping district, the temples of the Shoguns, the guardhouses and gardens of the Imperial Palace, and most of the city’s theatres. Destroyed (but practically rebuilt)—the famous Central Station.
Points of interest in Tokyo are the Meiji Shrine and its large park of giant pines, oaks, and shade trees; Ueno Park, location of the Imperial Museum, Zoological Garden; Hibiya Park, one of the most beautiful in Tokyo, located near the Imperial Palace; and Shiba Park within the compounds of which are temples, tombs, lakes, and pleasure gardens.
OUTSIDE TOKYO: Many points of interest lie outside the city limits, among them, Okutama Valley and Mt. Mitake, a distance of about fifty miles from Tokyo, Inokashira Park, about an hour’s drive from the city, and Murayma Reservoir, source of the city’s water supply, about twenty-five miles distant.
HOTELS: All billeting is under the control of the occupation forces. The Army maintains certain hotels where the visitor may stay at small cost by arrangement with the military authorities. All other hotels are “off limits’’ to civilian travelers as well as military personnel. Best hotels are the Dai Ichi, Imperial, Osaka, and the Nomura. Sanitation and cleanliness are fair, liquor is served on the premises, and dancing is generally available. Meals, served under the direction of the Army, cost approximately 25c each.
TRANSPORTATION: The military government operates busses in and around Tokyo. All transportation beyond the city limits must be arranged through the occupation military authorities. Automotive transportation is scarce and difficult to obtain.
1934, the first four-engine trans-oceanic flying boats were placed in service by Pan American.
12