USE OF SEAT BELTS: As a precautionary measure, all passengers are asked to fasten seat belts prior to and during take-offs and landing. They may be unfastened as soon as the light panel, “Fasten Your Seat Belt,” goes out. Most of the time your flight will be as smooth as riding in your family car. When rough air is encountered, as happens occasionally because of changing currents of warm or cool air, you will be more comfortable if you fasten your seat belt. The light panel will flash on to tell you.
HEATING AND VENTILATION: The heating system generates sufficient warmth to heat the average ten room home at zero temperatures. Through regulation of heat and ventilation, the Flight Engineer will see that the temperature inside is as comfortable as possible at all times. If not, speak to the purser or stewardess.
THERE’S NO SUBSTITUTE FOR EXPERIENCE: Like the engineer on a train, you seldom see the Captain of your Clipper. In order to qualify as a Clipper Captain he had to put in many years of transoceanic flying in all kinds of aircraft and in all kinds of weather. Assisting him are a First Officer, Navigator, Radio Officer, Engineer, and a Purser and Stewardess, all of whom are especially trained by Pan American for their jobs.
SLEEPERETTE*: As a Clipper passenger you will enjoy something unique in travel luxury on flights across the Pacific. Sleeperette—Pan American’s exclusive new chair-lounge, with attachable curtains for compartment privacy—is now being installed on trans-Pacific Clippers. Easily converted from a roomy seat into a full-length lounge, the Sleeperette is cushioned with soft foam-rubber and features a moulded head support and an adjustable leg-rest. It provides just twice the leg room found in ordinary seating. An added feature is the fold-away table, handy for eating, reading, writing or office work. Sleeperette will leave you refreshed and ready for business or pleasure after the longest Pacific flight.
BAGGAGE: Your checked baggage will be stowed in the Clipper cargo compartment and will not be accessible during your trip. It will be ready for you a few minutes after you arrive at your destination. Because of limited space on board your Clipper you can understand why heavy baggage is not permitted in the cabin. However, such articles as coats, vanity cases, brief cases and small packages may be taken on board, although first they should be identified with tags obtainable at any airport. These articles are in your custody and you should remove them from the Clipper upon debarking. We will hang up your coat and hat for you and will make every effort to find space for any cumbersome packages. They will be returned whenever needed. Please do not place heavy packages or brief cases on the rack overhead.
* Patent Applied For.
1928, Pan American was the first company under the American flag to utilize radio in the air transport field.