“WHY SO EARLY AT THE AIRPORT?”: If you have been wondering why you were asked to be at the airport so far ahead of time, it is because international travel involves many details unnecessary in “domestic” travel. Time must be allowed to make a final check of your travel documents, and absolutely accurate lists of passengers, mail and cargo must be prepared to fulfill the requirements of the countries through which your Clipper flies.
“HAVE WE LEFT ANYBODY BEHIND?”: Because of the great distance between Honolulu and the United States, it is necessary to carry more fuel over this section of the route. As a consequence, fewer passengers can be carried than on some of the shorter hops. This often gives the erroneous impression that Pan American is flying with empty seats when the plane is actually loaded to full capacity.
KEEP YOUR TRAVEL DOCUMENTS HANDY: In international travel various Government regulations may make it necessary to check your passport and travel documents frequently. We suggest that you have all your papers on your person or handy at all times.
GO AHEAD—YAWN: In descending, prior to landing, you may feel a slight pressure on your ears. This can be relieved by chewing gum, or, better yet, by yawning and swallowing frequently. If you have a cold the feeling may be more noticeable.
GOVERNMENT BAGGAGE INSPECTION: At many airports, just before you depart, at some stations en route, and at destination, your baggage will be inspected by the government authorities and in your presence. The following items are most commonly subject to customs duties: unopened cigarettes, candy, perfume, matches; any purchases in their original unopened packages; new clothing and jewelry which may be assumed to have been purchased for resale at your destination; anything which may not be considered as personal effects. Plant quarantine officials may also inspect baggage to see if prohibited seeds or plants are being carried.
DRINKING: Passengers are cautioned that high altitudes greatly increase the effects of alcoholic beverages.
CAMERAS: In certain areas west of Hawaii the use of cameras is restricted. It is suggested that you ask the purser or stewardess just where you can take pictures and under what circumstances.
AIR MAIL: Your purser or stewardess will supply you with stationery and will inform you where letters may be mailed when you reach the various stations. Postal regulations do not permit flight crew members to accept letters or packages for carriage. They must be routed through regular postal channels.
1929, Pan American Introduced Flight Stewards to American Air Transport; meals were first served to passengers.
3