Round-the-World to New York <  CALCUTTA— —1002 Miles »• BANGKOK
Between the world’s highest mountains and the sea, the “Subcontinent of India” sustains one-fifth of the entire human race. Stretching 2300 miles from the borders of Iran to China and extending 2000 miles from Cape Comorin in the south to the mighty Himalayas in the north, India embraces an area of 1,581,000 square miles. More than 75% of its nearly 400,000,000 inhabitants live in some 650,000 small villages.
To the north, “India” is cut off from Soviet Asia by the Himalayas, on the northwest the Hindu Kush mountains separate “India” from Afghanistan, and on the east the Karakorum mountains divide “India” from China. This mountain chain contains the world’s tallest mountain —Mt. Everest (29,141 feet).
This great natural boundary is broken with the Khyber, the Kurran, the Bolan and Gomal Passes and the openings through Baluchistan, through which in the course of centuries Aryans, Parthians, Huns, Greeks, Mongols and the Tartars have poured in. Each influx added new racial and cultural strains to the 5,000 year old Indian civilization.
CLIMATE: “India” offers a variety of climate, ranging from tropical heat in the south to icy cold in the high mountains. In general, however, it is a hot country, with two distinct seasons—hot and dry. Calcutta, which is always hot, has an average rainfall of 60 inches.
LANGUAGES: Of “India’s” more than 200 languages, only 20 are important enough to be spoken by more than a million people each. English is the only common tongue used throughout the Peninsula and it is only spoken by 3 million. Best known languages of all—spoken by nearly three-quarters of the people—are Hindustani and Bengali.
AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Dum Dum Airport, 8 miles northeast of Calcutta. Operated as a military airport during the war, Dum Dum today offers fairly adequate facilities for airline passengers.
CALCUTTA: Calcutta, the capital of Bengal and chief port of the subcontinent and largest city, is located on the east bank of the Hooghly River. Until 1912, it was the capital of India and the seat of Government. (The present capital is New Delhi.) It is a cosmopolitan city of more than 2,100,000 people. Its busy waterfront is equipped with first
June 20, 1940, Pan American began passenger, mall, and express service between Seattle and Juneau, Alaska, via Ketchikan.
24