such articles as wood oil, firecrackers, cassina, linen handkerchiefs, and duck and goose feathers. Approximately ninety miles from Canton, main trade center of southern China, Hong Kong is the receiving port for goods coming into southern China and is the loading point for articles of export.
THE CITY OF HONG KONG: The island of Hong Kong is the center of British commerce in the colony and before the war commanded approximately one-third of China’s foreign trade. Roughly 10 miles long and 2 to 5 miles wide, the city is a teeming metropolis of over 700,000 people that sits on several high hills overlooking the harbor. A regular vehicular ferry connects Hong Kong with Kowloon on the mainland, and service is also maintained by commercial launch, motor boat and sampan.
CLIMATE: Although Hong Kong lies within the tropic belt, its climate is milder than might be expected. The temperature range is from 59° in February to 82° in July, with an average yearly mean of 72°. Summer is the rainy season for Hong Kong and typhoons are common from June to October. Cotton clothing is best for year-around use; however, it is well to have woolens handy during the winter months, as the northeast wind can be quite chilly.
THE AIRPORT: Your Clipper will land at Kaitak Airport on the Kowloon Peninsula, approximately 1 yi miles from the Kowloon business district. Ferry boats make the crossing between Kowloon and Hong Kong on regular schedules.
TRANSPORTATION: Motor car, rickshaw, tram car, sedan chair and bus transportation is available throughout the city at a reasonable cost.
HOTELS: There are several fine hotels in Hong Kong. Among them are the Hong Kong, located in the city’s main business district; the Gloucester, one of the colony’s most modern hotels; the Peninsula, overlooking the harbor; the Repulse Bay, located within the bay of that name; and the Lido, one of the finest resort-hotels in the world.	f
WHAT TO SEE IN AND AROUND HONG KONG: The island of Hong Kong alone offers many interesting sights and diversions. If you like swimming or sun-bathing you will find several well-sheltered beaches within short distances of the city proper; if you enjoy walking you have a selection of beautiful, conical hills within the city which will give you splendid views of the island and surrounding waters; or you may browse through shops and spend many enjoyable hours in the Chinese market and store sections of the city. Worth visiting are the village of Aberdeen, the original Hong Kong settlement where the townspeople dye their chickens different colors to distinguish them from their neighbors’; Deep Water Bay with its magnificent beach and
October 21, 1936, Pan American began regular passenger service across the Pacific, from San Francisco to Manila.
18