Hickam Field—one of the finest air bases in the Pacific.
Iolani Palace—former Royal Palace—Palace Square.
Kapiolani Park—zoo, aviary, public baths, aquarium.
Mormon Temple—in Laie Village.
Mission House—oldest frame building in Hawaii.
Nuuanu Pali—famous pass through Koolau mountain range.
Pearl Harbor—headquarters of the 14th Naval District,
7 miles out of Honolulu.
Pineapple Canneries—the canning season is from June to September.
Queen Emma’s Museum—once the home of Hawaii’s Queen Emma.
Royal Mausoleum—tombs of Hawaiian royalty.
Schofield Barracks—largest U. S. Military Reservation.
Waikiki Beach—ideal for swimming, surfing and canoeing.
SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT: All sports are enjoyed in Hawaii, but swimming and fishing are the Islands’ leading sport. As a guide to visitors, the Hawaii Visitors Bureau issues a calendar of events, which includes hula dances and luaus. The hula is a general name for Hawaiian folk dances.
ISLAND OF HAWAII O'Big Island”'): Hawaii, largest (4,030 square miles) island in the Hawaiian group, is 200 miles from Honolulu. It is a land of high mountains, live volcanoes, fern forests and an impressive section of the National Park chain. It is dominated by two principal peaks, Mauna Loa (13,680 feet), an active volcano, and Mauna Kea (13,784 feet).
The Hawaii National Park and Kona coast should be included in every visitor’s itinerary. The Park is unique in that it consists of two separate tracts of land lying on different islands and is noted for its luxuriant tropical vegetation. The Kona section on the western coast is headquarters for Hawaiian game fishing. North of Hilo, which is second to Honolulu in size, the Hamakua coast with its many waterfalls, gulches and tropical foliage, is an outstanding scenic section of the island.
HOTELS: The Hilo Hotel and Naniloa Hotel in Hilo, the Volcano House in Hawaii National Park and Kona Inn at Kailua on the southwest coast, all offer excellent meals and accommodations for visitors.
OTHER ISLANDS: Other islands in the group include scenic Maui, “Valley Island,” Kauai, the “Garden Island,” Molokai, with its Hawaiian homestead settlement and Kalaupapa leper settlement; Lanai, the “Pineapple Island”; Niihau, the “Forbidden Isle”; and Kahoolawe, “Goat” or “Dust” Island.
September, 1932, Pan American entered Alaskan air operations.
6