
PAN AM HOLIDAYS TO
PAN AM HOLIDAYS TO
Now YOU Can Head fi
TO HOLIDAYS 101 AND 104
via Pa/v American World Airways
via Pan American World Airways
Whenever the accommodations featured on these Pan Am Holidays are not available at the Kona Inn, Hawaii, the equally desirable alternate arrangement described below will be offered at revised rates:
10th Day
Transfer to airport for morning departure to MAUL Upon arrival, motor to the summit of Haleakala for an awe-inspiring view. Stop at Silversword Lodge for lunch. Proceed to Wailuku county seat and historic Iao Valley. Late afternoon flight to Hilo, HAWAII. Transfer to Naniloa or Hilo Hotel.
Yes — even if you’ve only a week — you can be the one they drape with flowers and serenade with Aloha. Choose one of the four Pan Am Holidays described inside and soon you, too, will be riding the surf and tanning under the Waikiki sun, eating poi at a luau feast and doing all the
wonderful things that can only be done in the Islands. And all for little more than a routine vacation would cost at home! You can go any time . . . there’s no limited period. And, as you know, it’s always May in the Islands and Hawaii has a full schedule of special attractions every month in the a	year. You’ll travel independently and be able to vary or extend any of these
Holidays. Yet everything will be arranged for you ... in advance.
'f NraS	You’ll save more than a fourth of the regular round trip
/ Yffj	fare to Hawaii by using Pan Am’s famous tourist fare Rainbow
k AflHr « ^	Service. Yet you’ll fly high above the weather in a fast,
I	«■	spacious double-decked “Strato” Clipper — comfort-
gtUlfc-	able and air-conditioned — the same type used in
F	^I	Pan Am’s deluxe service . . . The President. Should you choose
W J llllll	7 Vie President — and your flight is at night — you’ll enjoy
1 WBlifflmiL.	Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette service, super-soft armchairs
- . / imp P	which convert to full-length lounge beds. Or sleep in a
S^.	HI? \	foam-soft berth, at a slight extra charge. In either
MFdlpl	case, there’ll be a hot breakfast in the
J ^	morning. On day flights, full-course
dinners — complete vintage	and
choice of cocktails — are served en route.
Only on Pan American, of course, can you /	leave and return via Portland or Seattle, as well
A	as San Francisco or Los Angeles... Pan American,
the first airline to cross the Pacific . . . Pan I	American, carrying 50,000 Hawaii passengers
a year. So — now that you can go by Clipper and go for less than you ever dreamed possible — why wait? Choose one of these / Pan Am Holidays now and head for Hawaii and the vacation of a lifetime.
1 1th Day
After breakfast, visit the city, Rainbow Falls and the orchid and anthurium nurseries. Proceed to the Volcano House for lunch. In the afternoon, attend lecture and view the eruption film through courtesy of the National Park Rangers. Tour the crater, including Fire Pit and Thurston Lava Tubes, and the fantastic fern forest. Return to Volcano House for dinner and the night.
12th Day
Morning drive through Kau Lava Desert to Punaluu Black Sand Beach thence to Kona District. Drive over the vast 1950 lava flow. Picnic lunch at the colorful City of Refuge, the sacred walled city. Visit Captain Cook’s monument at Kealakekua Bay, a coffee mill, the strangely painted Church of St. Benedict, and Kailua before boarding plane for Honolulu.
SEE YOUR TRAVEL
It costs no more to have your Travel Agent make all the arrangements on one of these Pan Am Holidays. He can take care of all details, including transportation between your home town and any of Pan American’s 4 Gateways to Hawaii.
RATES FOR "MAIKAI" ALTERNATIVE
Adjustment in the Holiday Rales will be made w lien reservations are confirmed for the “Maikai” Allernale. When booked in connection with Holiday PAA-I0I, there will be a slight additional charge since this Alter nate includes a visit to MAUI as well. When booked In connection with Holiday PAA-101, the cost will be less than the published rates, the amount of saving dependent upon the type of hotel accommodations occupied for the extra night in Honolulu.
Clipper and Sleeperette, Trade-Marks Reg. U. S. Pat. Off. Copyright 1954, Pan American World Airways
Printed in U. S. A.
							
							