WHAT DOES A STEWARDESS DO? A Stewardess on a Pan American Clipper® is a hostess in the broadest sense—the person who welcomes our passengers—and continues to make them feel at home from takeoff to touchdown. She’s a girl of many talents—an engaging conversationalist . . . expert on foreign currency, customs and passport regulations ... proficient at whipping up a delicious meal and serving it miles up in the sky.
A Pan Am Stewardess radiates her genuine interest in others . . . knows how to reassure the occasional passenger experiencing a touch of “first-flight jitters”. . . can give first-aid in emergencies—even fill in as a children’s nurse, helping with formula preparations. Being a good stewardess is hard work—but fascinating, enjoyable work for the girl who really likes to work with people. Before you apply, ask yourself this question: Am I right for the job and is the job right for me?
WHAT ABOUT SALARY? Effective July 1, 1967, the starting pay for a Stewardess is $332.42 per month—as high as $382.28 upon completion of training! With additional increase every six months from date of employment, a Stewardess can earn as much as $525.54 per month within three years.
Pan American Stewardesses have plenty of room for advancement, too. A Stewardess may be promoted to Purser—the person in charge of an aircraft’s cabin crew —even before she has reached the top of her own pay scale. Promotions are based on seniority and ability— and Pursers earn up to $670.08 per month!
In addition to the salaries mentioned above, Stewardesses and Pursers receive substantial compensation for hours over 67 in each month. Eighty-five (85) hours constitutes the normal monthly flight time.
WHERE ARE YOU BASED? After completion of five weeks training at the Pan Am International Stewardess College located in Miami, you will normally be based in New York, Miami, San Francisco, Seattle, Houston, Washington or Chicago and fly to destinations round the world—Europe, Asia, the Pacific, Africa, the Middle East, the Caribbean and South America. If new bases are established, first choice will go to Stewardesses with greatest seniority.
WHERE DO YOU FLY? Generally, flight service personnel are rotated from one route to another—with periodic layovers at designated points which change from time to time. However, flight service personnel are able to exercise preferences for monthly flying schedules in accordance with their seniority and qualifications. In all cases, lodgings, food and transportation are provided by Pan Am. Present schedules keep Stewardesses flying about 15 days a month—with trips ranging in length from 1 day for the New York-Bermuda round trip to 12 days or more on a swing through South Africa or South America. The routes you travel are the famous routes of the Flying Clippers—a network that links 89 lands on 6 continents!
HOW ABOUT ANNUAL LEAVE? In addition to regular time off between flights, cabin attendants earn 30 days of paid vacation per year. While on annual vacation, Stewardesses and eligible relatives are entitled to fly anywhere over the Company’s routes for only 10% of the regular fare.
WHAT ABOUT HOUSING? Since your full pay begins the day you commence stewardess training, Pan American does not provide employee housing, however, special facilities are used for living accommodations during training in Miami. Each new stewardess must bring money of her own—$300 will do nicely—as a reserve fund and to see her through the first 3 weeks, until she receives her first paycheck.
After the training and assignment to a base station, stewardesses generally prefer to share an apartment which cuts individual costs considerably. Again, Pan Am will assist you in arranging temporary hotel reservations and by providing information concerning apartment vacancies, etc.
WHO PAYS FOR THE UNIFORMS? For the first year, you do. After that, Pan American furnishes any necessary replacements. Currently, the complete uniform with accessories costs about $300.00. If you wish, we can help arrange a bank loan for you to pay the initial costs. You can take up to a full year to repay this loan from salary deductions of $25.00 per month.