Velorios de Cruz. Musicals of the Cross. Music, song and folk dance festivities. Caracas. May. Isla de Margarita, May-September.
Corpus Christi Day. Devils of Yare Cele bration (Red Devils Folklore Fiesta) at San Francisco de Yare. State of Miranda. June 10.
Independence Day. National holiday. Fireworks, celebrations throughout Venezuela. July 5.
San Carlos Festival. San Carlos.
July 15-31.
Bolivar's Birthday. Celebrations honor the Liberator of South America. All Venezuela. July 24.
Feast of the Assumption. Religious celebrations, fairs, parades, music. Throughout Venezuela. August 14,15. Tariba National Festival and Fair. Bullfights, music and song fests, Folk Dances. Tariba. August 15-22.
La Tura Dance. Native Pagan rite and dance festivities. El Vegon, Falcon. September 23,24.
Columbus Day Celebrations. Parades, feasts. Throughout Venezuela.
October 12.
Bullfight Season Begins. November. Christmas and New Year's. Festivities start several days before Christmas. Fabulous fireworks on Christmas Day. All Venezuela. Through 1st week in January.
PAN AM'S WORLDWIDE MARKETING SERVICE
Helps You Do Business Abroad With Greater Ease, Efficiency, Economy. Pan
Am can help you find new markets for your products, new products for your market... arrange your initial contacts in 122 major markets around the world ... set up your business trip abroad and make it even more productive.
World's Greatest Business Source Of Free Market Information. Pan Am can
help you get vital foreign marketing facts ... advise you on every detail of doing business abroad ... and offers free information on new opportunities and business developments worldwide (including listings of your products or needs) through the pages of "Worldwide Marketing Horizons"®. Ask your Pan Am Cargo Representative for your free subscription.
World's Greatest Air Cargo Fleet For World's Fastest Delivery. Pan Am can
provide you with cargo service to and from every major world market, cut your shipping costs with hundreds of reduced commodity rates—world-wide! Pan Am eliminates shipping schedule headaches with more planes, more flights, 122 international ports of call (18 in the U.S.A. alone), international truck and air agreements that speed door-to-door deliveries and simplify documentation. Our new 747s, each with a cargo capacity of 40,000 pounds of containerized cargo, offer added economy through reduced rates for containerized shipments ... and double the capacity of our present all-cargo jet fleet.
Worldwide Service Organization. Pan
Am has more full-time cargo personnel than any other airline and assures you of highly efficient business methods in your homeland and outside it in a total of 82 lands.
TRAVEL SERVICES
First Class Service. Enjoy all the extras in room, comfort and service—plus the superb international cuisine—you'd expect from the World's Most Experienced Airline.
Economy Class Service. Pan Am's traditionally high standards of equipment, personnel and service assure you unmatched comfort and pleasure throughout your trip.
Special Tours at Bargain Rates. There are more than 600 "Pan Am Holidays" to choose from—each a cost-inclusive package offering substantial savings. And there are also many special interest tours available to individuals or groups. Easy Credit-Travel Arrangements. You can charge air travel to almost anywhere, using most general-purpose credit cards or your UATP card. Or you may arrange to pay in monthly instalments with our Pay Later Plan. The "Extra Cities Bonus Plan" lets you visit many additional cities along your route—without paying any extra air
50