CHINA, REPUBLIC OF (TAIWAN)
New Year's Day. Musicals, dragon and lion dances celebrate the nation's founding in 1912. January 1.
Chinese Lunar New Year's Day. First Day of "Year of the Pig". Largest and most colorful festival of year.
January 27.
Lantern Festival. Lantern parades, classical concerts, shows, and dances mark end of New Year season. February 10. Flower Season. Cherry and azalea blossoms at Yanmingshan Park, Wulai, Wushe and Taroko. March 1-31.
Youth Day. Commemorates sacrifice of 72 lives in effort to found Republic in Canton in 1911. Mass rally, parade and historical exhibition. March 29.
Buddha Bathing Festival. Marks birth of Buddha. Parades, ceremonies. April 8. Dragon Boat Festival. Honors poet Chu Yuan. Dragon boat races. May 28. Harvest Festival of the Aborigines. Highlighted by harvest dances. Wulai near Taipei. July 4.
Birthday of Cheng Huang, "City God of Taipei". Dragon and lion dances, procession on stilts. July 5.
Confucius' Birthday. Ceremonies and ancient ritual of feather dance at Confu-cian temples. September 28. Mid-Autumn (Moon) Festival. Millions gather to gaze at brilliant moon. Festival. October 3.
Double Tenth National Day. Colorful celebrations throughout Taiwan. Parades in all major cities, impressive ceremonies in Taipei. October 10.
Taiwan Restoration Day. Commemorates return of province to Republic of China. Annual provincial athletic contests, lion and dragon dances.
October 25.
Chrysanthemum Show. New Park, Taipei. Simultaneously, the Shi-lin Horticultural Experiment Station holds its Autumn Orchid Show. October 30-November 6.
HONG KONG
Chinese New Year Celebrations. Begin the "Year of the Pig". End with Lantern Festival. January 27-February 10. Biennial China Sea Race/Yachting.
Open to sportsmen, yachts of all nations. Hong Kong to Manila, 600 miles. March.
Hong Kong Open Golf Championship.
Open to professionals, amateurs of all nations. Trophies, prize money. March. Ching Ming Festival. The Chinese All Souls Day, when families visit graves to clean them and make burnt offerings. April 5.
Birthday Festival of Tin Hau, Queen of Heaven, goddess of fishermen. Spectacular pilgrimage to Tai Miao Temple,
Joss House Bay. Lion dances. April 18. Festival of the Bun Hills. Huge bun mountains are built, climax is scramble for buns. Colorful float procession, lion dances, Chinese opera. Cheung Chau Island. May.
Birthday of Lord Buddha. Bathing of Buddha's statue in temples and monasteries. May 2.
Dragon Boat Regatta. Dragon boat races at Aberdeen, elsewhere. Principal race at Taipo. May 28.
Yue Lan/Festival of the Hungry Ghosts.
Shops sell paper effigies burned as gifts to dead. August/September.
Soccer Season. Soccer League Matches. Last week, September—first week, May. Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club Race Meetings on alternate Saturdays and special days. Four sweepstakes: Steward's Cup (January), Pearce Memorial Cup (March), Hong Kong Derby (May), Kwantung Flandicap (November). Mid-Autumn Festival. Moon cakes and lanterns, October 3.
INDIA
Pongal-Sankranti. Harvest Festival—one of the gayest events in region of Madras, Mysore, and Andhra Pradesh. Newly harvested rice is cooked and partaken of by all. Gaily decorated cows and bullocks are fed on pongal as a symbol of veneration. Procession and bull wrestling. Many other festivities. January 14. Republic Day. India's greatest National Festival. In all state capitals, most impressive in New Delhi. Colorful ceremonies, pageantry and folk dancing. January 26.
Floating Festival. Temple deities, clothed in silks, jewels and flowers, are taken around a big tank on gaily decorated float illuminated with hundreds of lamps to the accompaniment of instrumental music. In temple-town of Madurai. February 9.
Moharram. Colorful Muslim festival commemorating martyrdom of the grandson of the holy Prophet Mohammed.
In all cities and towns. In many parts of India "tiger" dancers lead the processions. March 8.
Baisakhi. Hindu Solar New Year Day, observed practically all over Northern India and Madras. Mainly religious festival. In Sikh community Punjab farmers start harvesting with fanfare. The Bhan-gra, a vigorous folk dance, is seen in the villages. April 14.
Onam. Harvest festival celebrated with gusto in every home and the outdoors. Snake boat races. Most spectacular at Aranmula, Champakulam and Kot-tayam. September 2-5.
Dussehra. Popular festival celebrated variously by different regions. Notable in Delhi, Mysore, Kulu and Calcutta. September 27-30.
Diwali. Gay Indian festival, occasion of great excitement and rejoicing. Every city, town and hamlet bright with thousands of flickering oil lamps and electric lights. October 18.
Pushkar Fair. Races, events on camel-back. November 2.
Id-ul-Fitr. Feast marks end of Muslim fast month. November 20.
INDONESIA
Temple Festivals. Bali. Colorful ceremonies, festivities take place throughout year.
Sekaten. A feast preceding the Grebeg Maulud festival. The sacred royal gam-elan musical instruments are played at the Mosque grounds from 7 a.m. to midnight for five days. Usually includes a night fair. Jogjakarta. May or June. Kerapan Sapi/Bull Races. Before races, decorated bulls parade to drum, gong and flute music. Finals in October. Madura Island near Surabaja. August-October.
58