Harvest Festival. Farm products hung in windows and doorways, goodies festooned on bamboo poles along main streets serve as grabs for paraders. Sa-riaya and Lucban of Quezon Province, May 15.
Philippine Independence Day. Parades, concerts, fireworks, shows, exhibits, banquets. Manila. June 12.
River Parade in Apalit. Pampanga. Gay parade down river to honor St. Peter.
June 29.
River Festivals. Baroque pagoda carries Holy Cross up and down Bocaue River. July 5. Traditional river procession in Pateros, suburb of Manila, July 24.
Feast of Our Lady of Penafrancia. Week-long festival climaxes with procession of gaily decorated barges. Naga, Camarines Sur. September.
Christmas Lantern Festival. Procession of colorful and gigantic lanterns. San Fernando, Pampanga. December 24.
New Year's Eve Celebrations. Paper lanterns, Christmas trees, brass bands everywhere. Children fire bamboo cannons, explode firecrackers. Fireworks in town plazas. December 31.
RYUKYU ISLANDS
Bullfights. Traditional fight between two bulls. Naha, Koza, Yakena. Throughout year.
Cherry Blossom Festival. Nago. While cherry trees are in full bloom, last week in January.
Jurima Festival. Teahouse entertainers' annual shrine visit. Geishas in colorful native costumes parade, offer prayers to their patron god. Naha City. February or March.
Okiten Exhibit. Annual exhibition of fine arts, ceramics, photography, calig-raphy, textiles and lacquerware. Naha. Late March.
Commercial and Industrial Festival. Parades, entertainment and Sumo wrestling matches. Naha. Mid-May.
Sea God Festival. Traditional canoe races. Itoman, Nago, Motobu, Naha.
May 30.
Bon Festival. Honoring the spirits of ancestors. Throughout the Ryukyus. In August.
Harvest Moon Party. Moon-viewing parties are held at various places. Lion dance is performed in bright moonlight at Shuri and Naha. Mid-September. Geijutsu-Sai. Art festival featuring Okinawan classical folk dances and music. Naha. Mid-November.
SINGAPORE
Thaipusam. As penance, Hindu devotees walk in processions to Chettiar and Sri Mariamman Temples with steel skewers driven into their bodies and carrying "kavadis". Temple deity procession at night. Fire-walking ceremonies. January 22.
Chinese New Year Celebrations. Ushers in "Year of the Pig". Children and women dressed in their best go out visiting. Also feasting, firecrackers. January 27, several days following.
Chap Goh Meh. 15th night of the Chinese New Year brings festival to close with exploding firecrackers. Glitter and gaiety abound. February 10.
Birthday of Kuan Im, Goddess of Mercy. Chinese theatrical shows.
March 15.
Vesak. Celebration of Lord Buddha's birth, death, and enlightenment. Procession of illuminated floats may be held. May 9.
Mouloddan Nabi. Street processions mark birthday of Muslim Prophet Mohammed. May 17.
National Day. Colorful parades and celebrations in the city. August 9.
Festival of the Hungry Ghosts. Market place celebrations, Chinese theatrical presentations, puppet shows.
September 4.
Deepavali/Festival of Lights. Commemorates slaying of tyrant king Naraga-sura by Lord Krishna. Hindu homes are lit with oil-lamps, candles. October. Festival of the Nine Emperor Gods.
Open air wayangs (Chinese operas) staged. October 19-27.
Kusu Festival. Chinese Taoists travel on gaily decorated boats to Tua Peh Kong Temple on Kusu Island. October 19-November 17.
THAILAND
Kite-Fighting Season. Contestants with elaborate kites seek to knock down opponents' kites with their own strings. Each afternoon in front of Grand Palace, Bangkok. February-April.
Phra Buddabaht Festival. Buddhists flock to ancient Shrine of the Holy Footprint near Saraburi, 85 miles from Bangkok. February 9-11.
Magha Puja Day. The Buddhist Saints' Day commemorates gathering of 1250 disciples before Lord Buddha without prior summons. Men and women, grown-ups and children, recite formulas in praise of the Triple Gem, then make a clockwise procession around the temple hall. February 10.
Songkran/Water Festival. Water sprinkled in veneration on Buddha images, monks, elders. Folk dances, music, songs. April 13-15.
Visakha Puja. Monastery candle processions commemorate the Buddha's Birth, Enlightenment, and passing into Nirvana. May 9.
Tod Kathin. Offering of new yellow robes and utensils to Buddhist monks. Royal Barge procession in Bangkok. Processions sing and dance to monasteries with gifts. October 5-November 2.
Phra Chedi Klang Nam Festival. Annual pilgrimage to Chedi (pagoda) at Paknam, south of Bangkok. Colorful processions, water games, boat races. October 12-14. Phra Pathom Chedi Fair. Thousands pilgrimage to Thailand's largest, most ancient pagoda at Nakorn Pathom. November 1-5.
Loy Krathong/ Festival of Lights. On
Thai waters, tiny flames from hundreds of thousands of "krathong" (banana-leaf boats) honor the Holy Footprint of Lord Buddha. November 2.
Elephant Round-up. Program includes elephant round-up, elephants at work, tug-of-war between elephants and men, local performances and elephant riding. Special train with sleepers leaves Bangkok the night before. Surin.
November 20.
King's Birthday. Pageantry, illuminations. Royal Guard Parade, Bangkok. December 5.
61