TONGA
Birthday of H.R.H. Crown Prince Tu-pouto'a. Celebrated with dancing, singing and feasting. May 4.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II's Birthday. Parade of Royal Guards and "At Home" function at British High Commissioner's Residence. Early June. Emancipation Day. Also Independence Day and day on which Tonga became a member of the Commonwealth of Nations in 1970. Celebrates freedom of Tongans from serfdom and their uniting under a single King. Feasting, singing, dancing. June 4.
Taufa'ahau Day. Birthday of His Majesty King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV. Feasting, singing, dancing. July 4.
Hospital Week. Festivities include float parade, dancing, singing and Nursing School Graduation and Ball. Early September.
ZCO Music Festival. Choirs, instrumental groups and soloists vie for honours in broadcasting station's competition. Early December.
Christmas. Traditional Tongan celebrations with feasts and church services, carol singing and string bands in the streets. December 24-January 1, 1972.
TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
Yap Day. Ceremonies honoring the tradition and history of Yap. March 1.
Law Day. Observed throughout Territory. Sports, public gatherings stressing citizen relationship to law. May 1. Micronesia Day. Observed throughout Territory. July 12.
Legislative Day. Ceremonies, sports events. Moen, Truk. August 23.
Palau Annual Fair. Indigenous handicraft, dancing; agricultural displays, ball games, other events. Koror, Palau Islands. October 23-24.
United Nations Day. Observed in all districts, with special events in Saipan, Mariana Islands. October 24.
WESTERN SAMOA
Football. Regularly, Saturday afternoons. March-June.
Easter Monday. Cricket games, singing, dancing, picnics. April 12.
Anzac Day. Pre-dawn parade in memory of those who have died in battle.
April 25.
Independence Celebrations. Most festive week of year. Entire nation celebrates. Sports, long boat racing, horse racing, football and a marathon. In the evenings, traditional dances and socials. First week in June.
Golf Season. Tourists welcome to play. July-November.
White Sunday/Children's Day. Children, dressed in white and garlanded with flowers, march to church. Children honored in church services, at family feasts.
October 10.
Christmas Day. Feasts, church services, carols, plays. December 25.
New Year's Eve Ball. December 31.
BUSINESS ABROAD?
Check with your Pan Am Cargo Representative
He's the man to help you find the profits that may be waiting for you today in markets overseas—regardless of the size of your business, the size or frequency of your shipments, or whether you're buying or selling.
Your Pan Am Cargo Representative is the man with the facts and figures on all aspects of air shipping and his direct lines of communication to 122 major world markets are at your service.
You'll find him happy to help you investigate new markets, new opportunities, new profits around the world, to help you make cost comparisons and, in brief, to do his best to aid you in any way he can.
Reach him through your nearest Pan Am District Sales Office.
BUSINESS SERVICES
PAN AM'S WORLDWIDE MARKETING SERVICE
Helps You Do Business Abroad With Greater Ease, Efficiency, Economy. Pan
Am can help you find new markets for your products, new products for your market... arrange your initial contacts in 122 major markets around the world ... set up your business trip abroad and make it even more productive.
World's Greatest Business Source Of Free Market Information. Pan Am can help you get vital foreign marketing facts ... advise you on every detail of doing business abroad ... and offers free information on new opportunities and business developments worldwide (including listings of your products or needs) through the pages of "Worldwide Marketing Horizons"®. Ask your Pan Am Cargo Representative for your free subscription.
World's Greatest Air Cargo Fleet For World's Fastest Delivery. Pan Am can
provide you with cargo service to and from every major world market, cut your shipping costs with hundreds of reduced commodity rates—world-wide! Pan Am eliminates shipping schedule headaches with more planes, more flights, 122 international ports of call (18 in the U.S.A. alone), international truck and air agreements that speed door-to-door deliveries and simplify documentation. Our new 747s, each with a cargo capacity of 40,000 pounds of containerized cargo, offer added economy through reduced rates for containerized shipments ... and double the capacity of our present all-cargo jet fleet.
Worldwide Service Organization. Pan
Am has more full-time cargo personnel than any other airline and assures you of highly efficient business methods in your homeland and outside it in a total of 82 lands.
55