International Surfing Championships.
Men, women, and children ride 5 to 20-foot waves. Tandem and acrobatic surfing also featured. Makaha Beach, Oahu Island. In December.
NEW CALEDONIA
Bastille Day Celebration. Torchlight procession, fireworks, ball, parade, bicycle races, native cricket, children's sports. Nouméa. July 13-14.
Mountain Car Rally. From Noumea to Nouméa with the best local and foreign drivers. Mid-July.
Annual Public School Week. School arts, handicrafts displays. Recitals of French songs, poems. Nouméa. September.
Anniversary Day Celebrations last a week, include horse, bicycle, boat races; Queen Contest; native cricket, International Soccer Matches; torchlight processions; ball; Street Jumble Sale. Nouméa. September 24-30.
Car Safari. Around the Island and through the mountain passes with international teams. End of November or beginning of December.
Pere Noel's Arrival. Traditional children's Christmas event. Procession in Nouméa. December 24.
NEW HEBRIDES
Queen's Birthday Celebration. British militia parade at Vila, Santo, other islands. Sports events and ball. June 8. Bastille Day Celebrations. French festivities at island centers. Torchlight processions, fireworks, sports, canoe racing. Vila ans Santo. July 13,14.
Land-Divers of Pentecost Island. Natives dive from tower with vines attached to ankles to prove manhood. Last performance November 1.
Christmas Festivities. Pére Noel arrives at Vila. Church services, choir singing, ball. December 23-25.
SEE YOUR
PAN AM AUTHORIZED TRAVEL AGENT
He can help you plan—and save. His cheerful assistance, his sound advice and knowledge of schedules and services will save you time and trouble—let you stretch your travel budget.
He can aid you in choosing and planning the trip best suited to your interests and to your budget. He can tell you about the things to see, the places to stay, to eat, to shop. He can point out side excursions that will double the value of your trip. He has full details on all of Pan Am's money-saving fares.
He knows all the routes on which our new 747 is in regular service, so he can arrange your itinerary, when possible, to provide the ultimate in travel comfort— aboard the plane with all the room in the world.
He'll be glad to handle—in advance—all your accommodations, tickets and reservations wherever you may go, as well as arranging for everything to be covered by our Pay-Later Plan or other convenient credit plans, if you wish.
He's an unbiased international expert, and he's on your travel team. His knowhow, his insight into everything about getting anywhere you want to go—more enjoyably—will help you plan a truly memorable trip.
NEW ZEALAND
Rodeo—Wanganui/Egmond, Wanganui. Jan. 1.
Lnternational Grand Prix. Pukeohe.
Jan. 9.
Dunedin Festival Week. Dunedin. 4th week of January.
National Outdoor Life Sports and Industries Exhibition. Tauranga.
January 23-30.
Auckland Anniversary Day Yachting Regatta. World's largest one-day regatta. Waitemata Harbor. Feb. 1. Interdominion Trotting Champs. Christchurch. February.
Annual Conference Australasian Institute of Mining & Metallurgy. Auckland (Opens Feb. 28). Otago. March 6-9.
N. Z. Senior Marching Championships, Wanganui. March 20.
Rugby Football Season. Opens Easter Weekend.
N. Z. & Overseas Magicians Convention. Otago. April 9-12.
Skiing Season at Mt. Rupaehu and Coronet Peak. Opens mid-July.
PAPUA-NEW
GUINEA
Goroka Show. Annual agricultural show and tribal meeting. Goroka, New Guinea. In May.
Agricultural Society Show. Held on Queen's Birthday weekend, at Port Moresby, Papua. In June.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
Traditional Festivities. Dances, songs, feasts, other events. Throughout year. Festival of the Solomon Seas. War
canoes carrying up to 50 warriors from all parts of the Islands take part in races and displays. Tests of seamanship skills. Custom canoes, dress and weapons.
Point Cruz. Whit Monday, May 30.
Arts & Crafts Exhibition. Traditional and modem arts, crafts and carvings. Honiara. August.
TAHITI
Ancient Polynesia Festival. Three-day celebration on island of Huahine, with reenactment of pagan religious ceremonies on restored ancient temples. May. Miss Tahiti Contest. The island's loveliest maidens vie for honor of Beauty Queen of Tahiti. May.
La Fete Du 14 Juillet—2-week celebration of Bastille Day, July 14. Great enthusiasm throughout Tahiti. Bright decorations. Folklore festival with javelin-throwing contests, outrigger canoe races, fire-walking ceremonies. Dancers and singers compete in colorful costumes. Gayest open-air ball of the year around July 14.
All Souls' Day. People gather at dusk in cemeteries, light candles at the graves, which have been painted white and decorated with shells and fresh flowers. November 1.
Christmas Eve. Celebrated with midnight masses in Roman Catholic churches. December 24.
New Year's Eve Celebrations. Protestant native church features singing service 8 p.m. to midnight. Remainder of night filled with gay parties and merriment. December 31.
54