homme Carnaval", world's only talking snowman. Quebec City. February 4-23. International Pee Wee Hockey Tournament. Canadian, U.S. teams of youngsters 10 to 13. Quebec City.
February 11-20.
Carnaval-Souvenir of Chicoutimi. Historical carnival. Chicoutimi.
February 17-24.
Skiing. World Cup Competitions, Mont Sainte-Anne, Beaupre. February 19-21. Invitational Jumping Championships. March 20, 21.
Camping and Sports Show. Place Bona-venture, Montreal. March 26-April 4. Man and His World. Main theme of Expo 67, now permanent exhibition. Montreal. June 12-September 7.
Saint Jean Baptiste Day Celebrations. Parades, open-air dances, other events. Throughout Quebec, especially notable in Montreal and Quebec City. June 24. Summer Festival. Night parade, Coronation of Cinderella, art exhibitions, swimming contests, discotheque. Riviere-du-Loup. July 2-11.
Valleyfield International Regatta. Canada's largest speedboat races. Valleyfield. July 10,11.
Le 24 Heures La Tuque. International swimming relay race. La Tuque.
July 17-18.
Lake Saint-Jean Marathon Swim: Peri-bonka-Roberval. Amateur swim competitions in Roberval Harbor. August 7.
La Tuque-Trois-Rivieres International Canoe Race. Three-stage competition, 100 miles. September 4-6.
SASKATCHEWAN Saskatchewan Homecoming '71. Yearlong province-wide celebrations include fairs, tournaments, carnivals.
1971 Canada Winter Games. Saskatoon February 12-21.
Prince Albert Winter Festival. Races, midway, balls, beauty pageant. Prince Albert. February 21-28.
Kinsmen International Band Festival. Moose Jaw. May 22-24.
Frontier Days. Swift Current. July 1-3. Buffalo Days and Provincial Exposition. Old-time costumes, pancake breakfasts, midway, industrial and domestic exhibits. Regina. July 27-August 7.
Golf. Lobstick Tournament, Waskesiu; Canadian Professional Golf Association Tournament, Saskatoon. Both in August.
International Film Festival. Yorkton. October 18-23.
YUKON TERRITORY Sourdough Rendezvous. International dog-team races, winter sports, beardgrowing contest. Days of '98 entertainment. Whitehorse. Last weekend in February.
Klondike Winter Carnival. Dog-team races, sports competitions, dances, queen contest, curling. Dawson City. March.
International Curling Bonspiels. Dawson City, mid-March. Whitehorse, late March.
Trade Fair. Held annually by the Yukon Vocational School, Whitehorse. In April. Annual Fishing Derby. Sponsored by Yukon Fish and Game Association. Whitehorse. July.
International Canoe Regatta. Yukon Voyageurs Canoe Club. Whitehorse. July.
Klondike Trail of '98 Carnival. Whitehorse. Mid-July.
Klondike Festival. Vaudeville show, Palace Grand Theatre. Dawson City. July and August.
Horticultural and Hobby Show. Whitehorse. August.
Discovery Day Celebrations. Commemorate discovery of gold and 1898 Klondike Gold Rush. Parade, horticultural and handicrafts show, stage show at Palace Grand Theatre, sports events, dances. Dawson City. Mid-August.
GREENLAND
Commemoration of Arrival of Hans Egede. 1971 is 250th anniversary of arrival of the missionary Hans Egede in Greenland. Special commemorative events will include the inauguration of a new church at Godhab, near the island of Habets 0, where he settled first and where the ruins of the first settlement have been restored by the Danish National Museum. Special divine services will be held all over Greenland.
ST. PIERRE & MIQUELON
Bastille Day Celebrations. Fireworks, torchlight parade, sport competitions, races, grand ball. July 14.
Jacques Cartier Celebrations. Commemorate arrival of the explorer. Sport competitions, regatta, pari-mutuel betting, fireworks, grand ball. August 1.
BUSINESS ABROAD?
Check with your Pan Am Cargo Representative
He's the man to help you find the profits that may be waiting for you today in markets overseas—regardless of the size of your business, the size or frequency of your shipments, or whether you're buying or selling.
Your Pan Am Cargo Representative is the man with the facts and figures on all aspects of air shipping and his direct lines of communication to 122 major world markets are at your service.
You'll find him happy to help you investigate new markets, new opportunities, new profits around the world, to help you make cost comparisons and, in brief, to do his best to aid you in any way he can.
Reach him through your nearest Pan Am District Sales Office.
For complete information on Pan Am's Worldwide Marketing Service CHECK WITH YOUR PAN AM CARGO REPRESENTATIVE
28