MALAYSIA
Chinese New Year. Festive occasion for Chinese of Malaysia. January 27, 28.
Ban Hood Huat Hoay or 'Ten Thousand Buddhas". Prayers for world peace and prosperity at Kek Lok Si Temple, Penang. February 10.
Chap Goh Meh. Celebrated in Penang with glitter, pomp and ceremonies. February 10.
Hari Raya Haji. Public holiday marking pilgrimage to Mecca (Arabia) by Muslims. February 25.
Malaysia Cup Football Competition.
Most popular sports event of the year. April-July.
Mauloddan Nabi. Processions of Muslims celebrate birthday of Prophet Mohammed. May 7.
Wesak Day. Celebration of Buddha's Birth, Enlightenment, and Death. Image of Buddha carried in lantern parade in Kuala Lumpur. May 8.
Turtle Migration. Giant turtles from South China Sea migrate to beaches of East Coast States of the Malay Peninsula to lay their eggs. May-September.
Dyak Festival Day. Festive occasion for Sarawak's Dyaks. Visitors are extended traditional hospitality and tuak (rice-wine). In June.
Merdeka Anniversary Football Tournament. International soccer event at Kuala Lumpur's Stadium Merdeka. In August.
Festival of the Seven Sisters. Chinese maidens pray to the Weaving Maiden by burning joss sticks and paper trays containing beauty aids. August 27. Malaysia National Day. Celebrations nationwide. August 31.
Festival of the Hungry Ghosts. Celebrations in market places, where Malaysian Chinese place tables of fine food for spirits. September 4.
Moon Cake Festival. Moon cakes baked, shops decorated with lanterns. October 3.
Universal Children's Day. Giant rally for children. Balloons, bands, races, presentation of award to most gallant child. October 3.
Festival of the Nine Emperor Gods. Chinese make pilgrimage to Kew Ong Yeah Temple on Paya Terubang Hill in Penang with offerings of vegetarian food. October 27.
MALDIVE ISLANDS
"Mowlood" Recitals. Mark the birthday of Prophet Mohammed. Also are held to commemorate other religious and historic occasions. In Male and other islands. At various times of the year.
Sailing Competition. Male. June. Independence Day Celebration. Religious observances, gymnastics and sports events, parade of Maldivian Army, cadets and scouts. Day's program ends with fireworks in evening. Principally in Male. Also celebrations on other islands. July 26.
For the answers to all your questions about travel...
SEE YOUR
PAN AM AUTHORIZED TRAVEL AGENT
NEPAL
Shivarati. Great fair is held at Temple of Pashupatinath. February. Ghodejatra/Festival of Horses. Race at Tundikhel is highlight. March-April. Baisakh Pumima. Festival celebrates Buddha's birth in Nepal. April-May. Machhendranath Rath Jatra. Chariot festival at Bungmati village in Patan. In April-May.
King's Birthday Festivities. Nationwide. June 11.
Gaijatra/Cow Festival. All Nepal. Notable are Kathmandu Valley's eight days of merry carnival. August.
Indra Jatra. Chariots of Kumari (the Living Goddess), Ganesh, and Bhairav are drawn in Kathmandu. Images of Indra exhibited. September.
Tihar/Festival of Lights. Houses decorated with lights to honor Goddess Luxmi. In October.
PAKISTAN
National Horse and Cattle Show. Called "the greatest horse show on earth." Major social event in Pakistan. Parades of mammoth massed bands, dancing horses, bull fights, camel fights, tentpegging contests, jumping bulls, clown bareback riders, cultural shows—in atmosphere of pageantry, grandeur. Tournaments. The Police Tattoo with Shama and Ghost Parades, trick motorcycle riding, horsemanship displays, Khattak and other tribal dances also take place at this time. Fortress Stadium, Lahore. Late February or early March.
Mela Chira-ghan/Festival of Lamps. A traditional pre-harvest festival. Thousands of tiny lamps light Shalimar Gardens. Merrymaking, Folk Dances, Drama, Songs. Lahore. March.
Pakistan Day. Parades, other events throughout country. March 23. Independence Day. Celebrated with pomp and ceremony, parades, rallies, sports events, cultural shows and Mushai-ra poetical symposium. Illuminations at night. August 14.
Quaid-i-Azam Mohammed Ali Jinnah's Birthday and Christmas Day Celebrations. Joyous festivities celebrate births of both the Quaid-i-Azam, founder of Pakistan .. . and Christ. December 25.
PHILIPPINES
Feast of the 3 Kings. Ends Christmas season. Parades in Manila, Sta. Cruz and Gasan, Marinduque. January 6.
Fiesta. Mammoth candle procession of devotees with 200-year-oid image of Black Nazarene. Quiapo District.
January 9.
Cebu City Fiesta. Worshippers perform vigorous "pit senyor" folk dance at San Agustin Church, Cebu City. January 16. Ati-Atian. Riotous Mardi Gras festival commemorates purchase of Panay Island. Kalibo, Aklan Province.
January 17-18.
Law Association for Asia and Western Pacific. Manila. January 18-22.
Pacific Area Travel Association. Baguio, January 21-22. Manila, January 25-29. Holy Week mingles medieval rites with native tradition. Blend is bizarre, fascinating, deeply moving. Passion plays in many villages. April.
Carabao Festival. Water buffalo blessing in churchyard, followed by games and carabao races. Pulilan, Bulacan. May 14.
60