BRITISH HONDURAS
Mestizo Villages' Fiestas. Colorful costumes; "free-for-all" feasting, drinking, street dancing. Specially noteworthy Fiesta de San Jose at Succotz climaxes with Baile de los Moros—re-enactment of conflict between Moors and Christians in old Spain. January-March.
Island Carnival. San Pedro. February. National Festival of Arts and Crafts. Drama, music, dance, art, craft work, folklore. 1 to 2 weeks, March-April. Virgin Del Carmen Fiesta. Gay costumes, village dancing and feasting.
July.
National Day Celebrations. 14 days of celebration—with mammoth parades, floats, sports, patriotic rallies, beauty queen coronations—on September 10. Christmas Season. A gay extravaganza of elaborate decorations; roving bands of musicians; dancing in homes, clubs, streets. Late in the season, the John Canoe Dance—performed in grotesque costumes, with menacing gestures, to weird drum tattoo. Belize City.
December—early January.
COSTA RICA
New Year's Day. Fourth day of Costa Rican celebration. Bullfights, social and public dances, fireworks, merry-go-round, roulette tables, international soccer games, horse races and other sports. January 1.
Fair of Flowers. 3-day celebration including beauty contest, parades and popular dances. Diplomatic missions sell products from their countries. 3rd or 4th week in March.
St. Joseph's Day. Religious Holiday. Processions. Special services. Special celebrations at capital city, San Jose for him as patron of city. March 19.
Other Festival & Feast Days: Easter, April 11. Corpus Christi, May or June. Saints Peter and Paul, June 29. The Assumption, August 15. All Souls' Day, November 2. Immaculate Conception, December 8. Christmas, December 25. Celebrations throughout the country. Labor Day. Holiday. Celebrated with civic meetings and parades. May 1.
Feast of Our Lady of Carmel. Religious Day. Largest celebration at Port Puntare-nas. Colorful procession of decorated boats. Port Puntarenas. July 16. University Week. Week of festivities for University of Costa Rica. Talent Show, dances and other cultural and sport activities. 2nd week of July. Celebrations of the Annexation of Guanacaste. Celebrated at Province of Guanacaste with civic and social and popular dances, horse races, rodeo, etc. Also, bullfights and fireworks. July 25.
Feast of Our Lady of the Angels. National Religious Holiday dedicated to patroness of Costa Rica. Cartago. August 2. Independence Day Celebrations. They begin the night before, when children march with fancy lanterns, bands, floats. Various parades and civic events on September 15.
International Automobile Fair. Latest models of vehicles and motor equipment. Folklore dances and other entertainment at National Park. San José. 1st week of December.
New Year Celebrations include carnivals, dances, bullfights, soccer football games. December 29-January 1.
EL SALVADOR
II Festival de la Musica. February 13-22. Holy Week. Streets are strewn with flowers. Colorful dresses, processions, religious ceremonies. Notable in San Salvador, Sonsonate, and San Miguel.
April 4-10.
Fiestas de Santa Ana. July 17-26.
August Festivals in San Salvador honor patron saint of El Salvador. On August 5, a float carrying the image of El Salvador del Mundo parades through the city. Event is the largest, most important festival in nation. August 1-6. Fiestas de San Miguel.
November 16-28.
GUATEMALA
Religious Festival. Esquipulas.
January 15.
Folklore Festival. Tecun Uman.
February 20.
Holy Week Celebrations. Throughout the land. Said to be most brilliant in Antigua and Guatemala City. Many small communities mix ancient pagan rites with Christian observances. Local fairs coincide with Passion Week. April 4-11. Fairs. Corban, August 4; National Fair, August 15; State Fair of Quiche,
August 15-19.
Independence Day. Parades, balls, parties throughout the country. Most festive in Quesaltenango with fireworks, athletic competitions, parades, amusements. September 15.
Fiesta. Celebrates Revolution of 1944. October 20.
All Saints Day. Celebrated by placing flowers on graves. November 1. Guadalupe Holiday. Young people in native dress go to pray in Guadalupe's church. December 12.
'The Posadas." Nine-day celebration, with parades every night, ending with informal parties. December 16-24.
HONDURAS
Virgin of Suyapa Celebrations. Patron of Honduras. February.
Holy Week. Processions. April 4-10. National Fair. San Pedro Sula. Mid-June.
Independence Day. Celebrations, parades. September 15.
Christmas Season. Nightly "posadas" reflect Joseph and Mary's search for shelter. Throughout Honduras. December 16-25.
New Year Fiestas. December 31-January 1.
MEXICO
Carnival. Colorful celebrations throughout Mexico. Major Festivities in Veracruz, Mazatlan, Merida, Tampico, Campeche. February 27-March 2.
Holy Week. Especially noteworthy at Taxco; at Ixtapalapa, Mexico City; and at Tzintzuntzan on shores of Lake Patz-cuaro. April 4-11.
San Marcos Fair. Annual spring festival. Mariachis bands, guitarists, bullfighters, charros, parades, regional dances in costume, folk and popular songs, fireworks, art expositions, market. Aguascalientes. April 20-30.
Lunes del Cerro. Great annual feast. Civic and cultural events—regional dances, singing contests, folkloric dancing, music and costumes. Oaxaca. End of July.
44