Army Day. Parades and celebrations throughout country. Most important in Parque Cousino, attended by President of the Republic, his Cabinet and the Diplomatic Corps. September 19.
Fresh Water Fishing Seasons. Rainbow trout, other salmon species: October 16-April 14 each year; Chilean trout, mackerel, bagre: December 16-August 14; rainbow trout—between Aconcagua, Tinguiririca Rivers—to May 31.
COLOMBIA
International Fair and Coffee Festival.
Float parades, Bull-fights, Folk Dances, Masquerades, International Shows and other festivities. Manizales. January 3-9. White and Black Carnival. Agricultural and Cattle Fair. Traditional Festivities, native markets. Pasto. January 4-6. Also in Popayan, parades of floats, dancing, merry-making in streets, flour battles, native dances. January 5, 6.
Feast of Candlemas. Torch-lit parades and pilgrimage to Popa Hill. Cartagena. February 2.
Opening of Grand Bullfight Season.
Top matadores from Spain, Mexico, Venezuela and Colombia. Bogota. February 2.
"Carnavales." Caribbean Mardi Gras.
Colorful merry-go-round of masquerades, floats, "Cumbia" and dance competitions. Gaiety throughout. Barran-quilla. February 20-24.
International Film Festival. Cartagena. March.
"South American Wimbledon" and "National Tennis Championship." Top
foreign and local players. Barranquilla. March.
National Orchid and Flower Exposition.
Hundreds of varieties of orchids and other exotic flowers, fashion shows, sports competitions, dancing in "Orchid Capital of World." Medellin. April.
Holy Week Traditional Celebrations have been taking place in Popayan for nearly 400 years. Hooded celebrants carry huge Saint replicas in torchlight parades. April 4-11.
National Art Festival. Theatre, dance, sculpture by national artists. Cali.
June 19-27.
National Folk Festival. Dancing and singing paraders, floats, masquerades and election of National Folklore Queen. Ibague. June 26-29.
Handicraft Fair and Exposition. National pageant to select Queen of Steel Industry. Sagamoso. July.
National Cotton Pageant, Cattle Fair and Exposition. Cross-country bicycle championship with participation of local and foreign teams. Buga. July.
Sea Festival and Election of Queen of the Caribbean. Scores of water sports competitions, masquerades and other festivities. Santa Marta. July.
VI Pan American Games. Cali. July 26 to August 8.
The Oil Festival. Skiing competitions, regattas, folk dancing and singing. Bar-rancabermeja. August IS.
Theatre Festival. Bogota.
September 1-30.
Industrial Exposition and Cattle Fair.
Breeders and Farmers from Colombia and neighboring countries participate. Bucaramanga. September.
National Tourist and Water Sports Festival. Pageants, regattas, parades and gen-
eral merry-making. Giradot.
October 8-12.
National Coffee Pageant and Cultural Week. Popular celebrations, art displays, bullfights. Armenia. October 10-14. Independence Day and National Beauty Pageant. City commemorates its independence from Spain with float parades, masquerades, social events and revelry. Cartagena. November 11.
Festival of the Colombia Song. Contests select best singers and dancers of "Jor-opo" and other Colombia themes. Handicraft exposition. Villavicencio.
December 7-10.
Christmas Celebrations. They begin in Colombia December 16.
International Sugar Cane Fair. Bullfights with top matadores, international shows, folk competitions, election of Sugar Cane Queen, social events. Cali. December 25 through January 2.
ECUADOR
Flowers And Fruits Fair. Parade with floats representing Provinces. Cattle, agricultural, industrial, craftsmanship fairs. Bullfights, international futbol, music, dances, folklore, floral expositions. Am-bato. February.
Carnival. Celebrated in all cities with parties, parades. Late February.
Holy Week. Solemnities celebrated with colorful dramatizations in all towns. April 4-11.
Independence Day of Riobamba. Industrial, agricultural and animal fair.
April 21.
Corpus Christi. Special solemnities in Saquisili. June.
Septenario (Seven Days) Celebration
with fireworks, concerts, traditional sweets. In Cuenca. June.
Celebration of St. Peter and St. Paul. Religious festivities, typical dances in Cotocollao, Cayambe, Otavalo. June 29. Agriculture and Artisan International Fair. Santa Rosa, El Oro Province. August.
National Celebration of Independence.
Military and school parades. Aug. 10. Yamor Festival. Corn Queen is elected in colorful aboriginal celebration that includes dances. Otavalo, Imbabura. September.
Independence Day of Guayaquil. Agricultural, animal, and industrial fairs, concerts, parades, dances. October 9. Foundation of Quito Celebrations. Include street, folk dances; bullfights with Ecuador, Mexico, Spain's best bullfighters; motor car parade featuring Spanish-costumed girls; concerts; art, handicraft exhibits; soccer games; expositions and fairs. Quito. December 6. Christmas and New Year Festivities. Colorful costume pageants take place in Quito and Guayaquil on December 24.
In Quito, Feast of the Holy Innocents sees more costume parades and dances, December 28-January 6. Traditional "Anos Viejos" Parade—dolls stuffed with firecrackers parody national and international figures and are burned at midnight on December 31.
Always check dates of events you wish to attend before you go ...
SEE YOUR
PAN AM AUTHORIZED TRAVEL AGENT
48