“ON HER COURSE”
One morning in the autumn of 1941, H. M. S. "'Audacity”—an airplane carrier of the British Navy—was guarding a convoy headed South in the Atlantic.
She was some 700 miles off the West coast of Portugal and some 300 miles East of the Azores.
"Plane sighted, sir, three points on the starboard bow, sir”, the lookout sang out.
The "old man” on the bridge, not believing a word of it, for three points on the starboard bow would mean the plane was coming from Southwest by South (obviously improbable) swung his binoculars to his eyes.
And there was the plane, all right, bearing steadily toward them and growing steadily larger.
He ordered two Martlets (Grumman Wildcats, made in the U. S. A.) to take off and investigate.
Once they had roared off the flight deck and had begun to
v	■ y
climb, the Captain turned again to have a look at the unidentified
X
NOTE ON THE TITLE OF THIS BOOK
The title of this book is a conservative title. Ten thousand times around the world at the equator is 249 million miles . . . Pan American Clippers passed that figure in 1943—have now logged more than 285 million miles of over-ocean flight since the System began operations in 1927.
plane . . . Much larger, now (he said to himself) . . .You can catch the sun-glint on her props . . . Four engines, by Jove! . . . A big one!
"Any word from their wireless?", he asked his signalman.
"Yes, sir", said that officer. Word was coming in from the fighter planes, climbing now from 5,000 to 6,000 feet, far out to the West. "Four engines. Flying boat. Altitude 8,000 feet. Course due East"—(pause). "She’s carrying flags painted on each side of her hull and under both wings." (Shouting) "She’s an American plane . . . Just a minute and we’ll give you the name. It’s painted on her bow."—(pause)—"Something Clipper . . . Dixie . . . D-I-X-I-E Clipper."
"Tell our pilots to come on in," said the old man, glancing at the compass. "M-m-m Dixie Clipper, Pan American flying boat. Right on her course for Lisbon."
This is a true story of what took place not so many weeks before Pearl Harbor . . .
"The Dixie Clipper—on her course.’’ In that one, short phrase is compressed the essence of Pan American’s contribution to the war effort.