A portrait of FRANCE, BELGIUM, THE NETHERLANDS, SWITZERLAND and LUXEMBOURG, part of A World of Neighbors
IT’S an old saying that if yom> take a seat at a Paris sidewalk cafe and wait long enoLigh, sooner or later you will see passing Everyone who is Anyone in the world. The procession already is 1,500 years old. Certainly for a good many years people have been flocking to France. "Good living,” culture, education and inspiration are undeniable attractions.
Julius Caesar wrote "Gallia est omnis divisa in partes tres . . .” The "Gaul” of Caesar’s time is mainly the France of today. Roman legions came here and before they withdrew had established markets, villages, fortresses, amphithe-
aters. At Paris (which they made administrative center for the area) they built a temple to Jupiter where Notre Dame Cathedral now stands.
France is known as a nation of arts, letters, science, gaiety and festivals. Always it has been a meeting place of people, politically and socially. Students of music, painting, styling and architecture flock there. The University of Paris (known everywhere as the Sorbonne) is almost 800 years old, as are the Universities of Montpellier and Toulouse.
Paris, capital city, spared destruction in the German blitz of 1940, is the third-largest city of the Old World, one of
FRANCE • BELGIUM THE NETHERLANDS SWITZERLAND • LUXEMBOURG
the world’s oldest and most beautiful cities. It has magnificent tree-lined avenues (the Champs Elysees, for example), fine public buildings, the Opera with its traditional red silk, gilded carving and plush, and large art galleries like the Louvre, housing the Mona Lisa and Venus de Milo. Here too is the Place de la Concorde with fountains and the obelisk Napoleon brought back from his conquest of Egypt, and the Emperor’s tomb in the Invalides. Paris night-life flower girls, Seine fishermen, open-air bookstalls are unique.
Old Marseilles, biggest port of France, as early as the third century B.C. was the source of coins that reached Paris and the Austrian Tyrol in the course of trade. Ancient Greeks and Phoenicians entered the heart of Europe via the nearby Rhone Valley. That way came the Roman legions; still later, religion, literature, arts and sciences fled there from the barbarian conquest of Rome. For almost a
century Avignon was the fortress of the Christian Church, home of the Popes and starting point for many of the Crusaders. Near Marseilles is the Chateau d’lf, island fortress that held the fabulous Count of Monte
Waterfront of Nice on the French Riviera	CristO.
Pleasures of riviera • The warm sunshine and
balmy breezes of the Riviera have made that coastline synonymous for years with leisurely living and good times. Here pleasure-seekers will again enjoy the life of Monte Carlo with its famous casino, Cannes and Nice, jewel of the "Cote-d’Azur.”
Portrayed on “picture-map” are		
Blériot crosses English	Victor Hugo	Column from Roman
Channel, 1909	Voltaire	theatre, Arles
Dikes and windmills	Charlemagne, emperor and	Harvesting wine-grapes
Notre Dame Cathedral	teacher	Normandy castle
Rembrandt	Prof. Picard’s	Farm girl, Normandy
Brussels City Hall	Stratosphere balloon	
King William, the Silent Making Belgian Lace	Alpine Horn William Tell	Storming the Bastille
Constitution of Belgium	Watchmaking	
Eiffel Tower	Riviera resorts	Arc de Triomphe
City of Luxembourg	Roman amphitheater,	Parisian flower girl
Marshal Foch	Nimes	Mont-Saint-Michel
Napoleon Bonaparte	Peace Palace, Geneva	Louis XIV
Madame Curie	Popes’ Castle, Avignon	Montmartre
Place de l’Opera, Paris
Although France has been invaded five times in the last five centuries, conquerors have never succeeded in maintaining their rule, and the power to restore independence (typified by the stirring Marseillaise) has always come from within the people. "Warrior of France” is no idle term. For centuries France has had to fight for her wants.
The French countryside is marked by rolling hills, leisurely canals bordered by stately poplars, hazy river valleys, changeless villages. The French have an appreciation of good food and matchless wines, and French chefs are world-famous. What "pubs” are to the British as social centers, cafes are to Frenchmen. At their bars (bistros) meet workmen in velvet pantaloons and berets.
There are great commercial cities, such as Lyon, center of the silk industry, the ports of Le Havre, Cherbourg and Bordeaux, and the industrial centers of the Channel region, but thrifty French farmers form the largest single group in the nation.
Of the early kings, Charlemagne rose to such prominence that Christian princes from across the Pyrenees and Moorish emirs from Bagdad brought him presents. A strong, stable government finally emerged and France took first place in many European affairs. Courts of kings became centers of fashion and civilized living. During Louis XIV’s record 72-year reign the influence of the monarchy reached its height and French became the language of international diplomacy. But popular unrest, culminating in the French Revolution, overthrew the monarchy and led to the Republic. Democratic ideals grew contemporaneously in France and America. Lafayette and 45,000 other Frenchmen, including military engineers, sailed the Atlantic between 1775 and 1781 to help the United States secure its independence; France loaned and gave the struggling colonies over $9,000,000.
France FAMOUS FOR AGES • Throughout all the years of German occupation in World War II France continued to resist the invaders. In almost every age France has achieved fame . . . There was the epic of Roland, the great cathedrals and universities, Rabelais, and Montaigne . . . the Three Musketeers and schools of literature, art and philosophy centered around Moliere, Racine, Descartes and others. After 1700 Voltaire and Montesquieu pointed
the way toward social reforms. Pasteur, Victor Hugo, Cezanne, Rodin and Debussy figured in the next century.
France has ranked fourth in the world in "visible” foreign trade (i.e., other than credit exchanges). In general her imports have been fuels, raw materials and certain foods, and exports mainly manufactured goods (including, silks, rare cheeses, gloves, wines and jewelry).
Belgium, most densely-populated country in Europe and highly industrialized, has skilled workers to turn out her exports of machinery, steel, cut diamonds, textiles and glassware, much of which in peacetime came to the U.S.A.
Julius Caesar eulogized the bravery of the "Belgae.” After Caesar’s Romans came the Franks and, later, the rule of the Houses of Burgundy and Hapsburg. Near Brussels, the capital, is Waterloo, where Napoleon was defeated in 1815. Again in 1914 Belgium became a battlefield—"In Flanders fields the poppies grow ...” and in 1944 the Battle of the Bulge marked Germany’s death throes.
Belgian cities flourished in the Middle Ages and town halls and guild halls, from as early as the 13th Century, are masterpieces of civic architecture. Liege, now a great steel center, became a literary and artistic center in the 10th Century; Bruges, famous for laces, canals and architecture, featured in Dante’s Divine Comedy.
Few tourists have failed to see the "flower town” of Ghent, the seaport resort of Ostend, the wool and textile center of Verviers, and Antwerp, diamond center and one of the world’s greatest ports, serving a large part of northwestern Europe. Belgian folklore is preserved in the colorful costumes of carnivals, cavalcades and mystery plays.
Luxembourg’s capital, a "rose-red city, half as old as time,” typifies her attractiveness for world travelers. Symbolic are these words of the Luxembourg National Anthem: "Where you see the slow Alzette flow, the Sura play wild pranks, where lovely vineyards amply grow on the Mosella’s banks . . .” Agriculture, iron mining and steel manufacturing are the chief industries.
Narcissus fields near Haarlem
Picturesque old-world Bruges, Belgium
The people of The Netherlands have had to fight two enemies for their land — the sea and foreign rulers.
The sea is relentless. Five hundred years ago the first windmills were built, not to ornament the landscape but for the very vital task of controlling water levels. Draining of the Zuider Zee, a great lake formed when the sea 1,000 years ago broke through the dunes, is an amazing engineering feat to provide 700 square miles of much-needed land for grazing and raising of sugar beets and potatoes. There are 1,500 miles of dikes and 4,500 miles of canals.
Copyright 1946, Pan American Airways, Inc.