WHAT KIND OF WORLD ARE WE FIGHTING TO CREATE?
In the last few months, Pan American’s “Forum of the Future” has presented answers to this question from leaders representing China, England, Mexico, Czechoslovakia, Free Italy and the United States. Here we present the opinions of a famous Canadian, Stephen Leacock.
'Jo even/ child we must </ive the chance
to LIVE, to LEARN, to LOVE"
by STEPHEN LEACOCK, Author and Economist
Misery breeds war.
You can never have international peace as long as you have national poverty.
You may multiply the pomp of the parade grand as you will, but if behind it is the festering slum, war will come, as certain as the spread of pestilence.
What i mean in a plain way is that we must enter on a vast, a titanic struggle against poverty and want. What we United Nations did in war we must do in peace, the same union of hearts, the same purpose for all.
To effect this we must unlearn our economics, scrap the whole of it. I have personally fifty years of it to throw away!
The fault with economics was the assumption that what can only be clone by the Spirit could be done by material interest . . . Business had done much for mankind; but society won’t hold together on a business basis alone . . . Nor on any basis which excludes the animating Spirit of the common man.
There is no fear that the world will not easily support us all. A family may be crowded, but a nation never. Even Malthus, who invented the theory of overpopulation, married and was a father!
Especially with the children lies our chief chance. Older people are battered out of shape. Their faces cannot be altered now. But to every child we must give the chance to live, to learn, to love.
Nor does social regeneration mean the obliteration of individual life. The roots lie too deep. There are limits to the amalgamation of society, to the common enjoyment of everything by everybody. One’s own is one’s own.
Many of us would rather have a house all our own in the bush than share a palace with a prince —especially with some of them.
We can have a League of Nations if we like. If we do it will be a consequence, not a cause. Try to buy happiness, by the quart or by the yard, and you never find it. So with Good Will on Earth. Cannon frightens it. Treaties fetter it. The Spirit brings it.
MCGILL UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL
Last year a great globe, four feet in diameter, was flown from Washington, D. C., and presented to the Prime Minister of Great Britain by a field commander in the United States Army. In any previous war, an accurate map would have done just as well. But to understand this war and to plan a workable peace, nothing less than truly global thinking will suffice.
This is the kind of thinking adopted by all Pan American personnel from the very beginning of the Company’s operations in 1928.
Today, Pan American has piled up a flight total of over 185 million miles of overseas flight. This record, plus everything else Pan American has to offer, is now at work for the government and military services of the United States in the cause of Victory.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM

Pan American Clippers