Contributors to Pan Americans “Forum of the Future” have included such leaders of thought as John Dewey, America’s great philosopher, Dr. Hu Shih and William Temple, Archbishop of Canterbury. Here Ezequiel Padilla, whose speeches were the high point of the Conference at Rio de Janeiro in 1942, tells you the kind of world he believes we are fighting to create.
"Humanity's Best	... the Union
of the Peoples of the Americas"
I
by EzEQUIEL Padilla, Secretary of Foreiyn Affairs of MEXICO
Twenty-five years ago the victory of the Allies led us to believe that peace would last for ages. A single generation, however, has been sufficient to let loose another war, even more cruel and destructive than the first.
What the world failed to achieve in that period between wars, was ....
organized justice for all peoples ....
And that single omission has brought back to raging life all the evils we believed we had forever laid to rest.
This time, when peace comes, what will it bring? Today, the conquests of modern science and technology are changing our whole lives before our very eyes. Applied science has insured for man mastery over Nature. This war is being fought to determine how that mastery shall be used—whether in the interests of slavery, or in the interests of freedom.
Naturally, in such a struggle ....
the common man has a tremendous stake.
He now claims a right to share in the benefits of man’s conquest of Nature, to which he has contributed, after all, most of the back-breaking toil. So it comes about that a clamor for justice arises, from all over the world. There is, in the mind of the common man, a stubborn determination that this time there shall be no peace without justice for him—no prosperity without liberty.
—But it is one thing to talk in broad terms; it is another to translate them into workable human institutions. How are we going to do that?
If war calls for united action, peace calls for it no less. Just as today, for Victory, the twenty-eight United Nations must count mainly on four great
armies—those of the United States, Britain, China and Bussia—so also tomorrow the world must look to certain nations for leadership in formulating a workable peace.
Last time a decisive part of this leadership came from Europe—and the peace did not last.
This time humanity must look to the Americas which have already proved, at Rio, that society can be organized between nations on a peaceful, democratic basis.
Among the world’s hopes, then, for a lasting peace, the best, the most dependable and the most positive will be the material resources, the planning ability and the social thinking represented by the union of the peoples of the Americas.
In the world of the future much of the earth’s culture, science and goods will be distributed by global air transports. Air travel costs for passengers will be brought within the reach of common men everywhere.
Pan American hopes to contribute to this better world the facilities, trained personnel and experience built up by over 165,000,000 miles of overseas flight. Nothing like the fund of scientific fact acquired in this pioneering exists anywhere else in the world today.
Until victory, of course, everything we have to offer has been placed at the disposal of the government and military services of the United States. On one division alone — the Eastern Division which serves Mexico, the Caribbean and South America —Pan American piled up over six million flight miles in the first nine months of 1942 . . . Wartime cargo shipments for the same period were up one thousand per cent.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
Pan American Cuppers