¿Æm
"Their Sufferings Will Not Have Been in Vain..."
Count Carlo Sforza, former Italian Foreign Minister
What kind of post-war world are we fighting to create?
Pan American has presented answers to this question hy such leaders of thought as Dr. John Dewey, Dr. Hu Shih and the Archbishop of Canterbury. Here Count Carlo Sforza, former Italian Foreign Minister and now leader of the FREE ITALIANS throughout the world, tells you what he sees—for the future.
THESE ARE TIMES when certain problems, once faced, are rapidly solved. During two thousand years, philosophers asserted that slavery was a "law of nature”; and yet more was done towards its abolition in the half-century around the American Civil War than in the whole preceding Christian era.
That is why I declared, in a recent speech at Montevideo, that the first duty of a free Italy will be "ardent support of an organized world with no more place for the anarchical independence of the nationalistic States.” I was not surprised when this statement met with cheers from Italians who had assembled to meet me from all parts of Latin America.
What is true for Italy, which has bitterly learned the folly of aggressive wars, is equally true for America. No American should forget that in the coming world even the Ocean will be no more than a big river; and
that, if only for that, the era of isolation is gone forever. Those who cannot see this are like certain dannati in Dante’s Inferno—people walking eternally with their heads turned backwards.
The highest duty of the present generation of Americans is to fight in order to make impossible a repetition of the Nazi-Fascist plot against peace. This American duty was foreseen by the Declaration of Independence when it stated in 1776:"... that whenever any form of Government becomes destructive [of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness] it is the right of the People to alter or to abolish it.” In Jefferson’s mind, "right” meant "duty” !
War always means suffering. But our sufferings in this "toughest of all wars” will not have been in vain since we are beginning to learn: —
(a)	INDIVIDUALLY: that Liberty is a right which must be won anew by the common people in each generation;
(b)	NATIONALLY: that the previous complete independence of Nations must cease. They must submit to a superior international law which will make it impossible for peaceful nations to be again at the mercy of adventurers. Never again must it be possible for a Nation, having first destroyed Freedom at home, to prepare Satanic aggression behind its closed frontiers.
We must resolve that frontiers will no longer mean what they meant up until 1939- I foresee a Peace Conference at which we might agree to draw in frontiers very lightly—with a pencil and not in indelible ink.
THE DAY THAT VICTORY is earned by the United Nations, aviation must be ready to demonstrate that it is a great co/zstructive, as well as a great instructive, force.
Air transport travel costs will, we believe, be brought within the reach of common men everywhere.
Two weeks’ vacation in Italy? Certainly, since Rome will be only 16 hours from New York by air. Round-the-world air cruises in tw'o weeks? Nothing will prevent them wTen Victory comes except the barriers of habit and disbelief.
When peace comes, Pan American looks forward to playing its part, through technological research as well as with trained personnel and flight equipment, in providing widespread distribution of the world’s culture, science and goods.
Today, of course, everything that we can offer—120 million miles of over-ocean flight experience, trained personnel and service to over 60 foreign countries and colonies—is at work for the government and military services of the United States.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
Pan American Cuppers