After ive have toon the war—what then? Pan American has presented answers by leaders of thought in America, England and China. Here we present a view of the future, written by Jan Masaryk, whose mother teas an American and who is now Vice Premier and Foreign Minister of the Czechoslovak Government in London.
"The World	We
Must Also Rest on Morality"
.says Jan Masaryk
vice premier of Czechoslovakia
ONCE the self-appointed demagogues and demigods of Europe and Asia are wiped out —and crushed completely, as they must be if we are to survive—the air-mindedness of the rising generations must be turned to the cause of peace, economic prosperity and the social security of all nations.
As printing press, gunpowder, compass, and astronomy were among the causes of the Renaissance, so today aviation, the microphone, the film and the synthetic raw materials offer equally strong stimuli to the material revolution which will place a new scale of values on our ideas and action.
• • •
The technical advance has stolen a march upon our mental capacity. To try to live according to rules which have long become obsolete compares with the vain struggle of the handweaver against the introduction of the automatic loom. We cannot live tomorrow by the rules of yesterday.
Sooner or later we shall have to readjust ourselves spiritually and intellectually to the changes produced by this material revolution and reshape our institutions accordingly.
In the field of politics the preponderance of victorious democratic and co-operative power must be harnessed in the services of the dynamic peace— a peace which will insure security to all peoples willing to adjust their difficulties on the basis of live and let live.
In the field of economics the supremacy of the common good, as contrasted with selfish gains by a few, must be furthered by concerted national and international, private and public action.
• • •
Nor will the ability of men to cover long distances at a high speed alone insure peace and material well-being. The world we want to live in must also rest on morality.
This terrible war has brought together all different nations, either as comrades in arms or as mili-
tary opponents. This war has also sharpened our sense of right and wrong.
After we have won the war, and are living together in peace, we shall try to forget the past by looking forward; and then our conception of international morality will become even more clarified. In the past, international morality has been the Cinderella of diplomacy. Tricks and doublecrossing must disappear from the intercourse among nations. Otherwise we are not worth saving.
Much has already been said elsewhere in favor of international co-operation versus isolation, organization and planning against disintegration, economic expansion against deadly restrictionism, super-nationalism against narrow chauvinism. With all that I agree. But on top of it, and ahead of it, I would like to stress the need of expanding our spiritual qualities which will establish a more lasting peace and a happier world.
f Today, for Pan American employees — as for millions of other Americans—there are no vacations. In the past year, 10 Pan American Clipper Captains have made six transatlantic crossings within ten days. That’s an average of a transatlantic crossing, per man, every one and two-thirds days for a ten-day period.
Other Pan American Divisions have established equally outstanding records. Since it was founded, Pan American has completed well over 120,000,000 miles of overseas flight —a record unequalled by any other organization in the world. The experience gained by this pioneering work is now wholly devoted to the cause of Victory ... As are all our other facilities and trained personnel.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM.
