Pan American’s “Forum of the Future” has included such internationally known leaders of thought as John Dewey, America’s great philosopher	Jan Masaryk, Vice Premier of Czechoslovakia
William Temple, the Archbishop of Canterbury Ezequiel Padilla, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico Here we present a view of medicine’s role in the coming world as formulated in an address,
“The Medicine of the Future,” by the late Dr. George Crile, co-founder of the Cleveland Clinic.
"Someday, will be a
Treatment
Confession
of Disease of Failure n
by the late Dr. GEORGE CRILE, World-Famous Physician and Scientist
“TN the 16th century, the average length of X human life was 18 to 20 years; in 1800, less than 25 years; in 1900, between 45 and 48 years; in 1924, 56 years.
Not only is life longer, but it is better—better physically, better mentally, and, I believe, better morally.
What of the future?
The chief duty of the physician will be to develop the race, to ... .
direct the development of youth ....
and to guide the adult along sound biological lines so that he may safely engage in the maximum of work and play.
In other words, the physician will be called upon to study the whole problem of man in relation to his environment. As for disease, the physician will be more concerned with its prevention than with its treatment. In fact, treatment of disease someday will be a confession of failure.
As for the different divisions of medical science, the ....
present outlook would seem to indicate ....
that in the future their individual progress will vary greatly. Surgery will continue to make advances, but most of its obstacles have already been conquered, and its field will grow narrower as preventive medicine advances.
The field of the inrernist, on the other hand, will be widened by advances, particularly in his knowledge of the ductless glands and the mechanism of the mind—psychology, memory, reason.
Tuberculosis and diabetes will be conquered. The
public will learn the importance of the early eradication of focal infections and the incidence of other infectious diseases will be reduced . . . Diseases of the heart and blood vessels, due to infections, will be reduced.
On the other hand, to the extent that these diseases are caused by nervous and mental strain— by the kinetic drive of environmental conditions— the incidence may even be increased.
The incidence of venereal disease will decline greatly. Because of the change in the attitude of the public toward it, venereal disease will be openly controlled.
The hazard of childbirth will be even further reduced, but congenital deformities will occur with the same frequency.
The nature of cancer will eventually be revealed, but it will still claim many victims.
Within certain limits, therefore, the physician of the future will be able to control the growth of the body and the development of the mind. He will acquire such a knowledge of biochemical and biophysical processes that he will be able to guide his fellowmen as an engineer of living processes. ’ ’
T, many thousands of sufferers all over the world the airplane has already carried quick and sure medical relief. In addition to bringing world travel within reach of the common man everywhere, tomorrow’s air transport will also bring men health and the latest discoveries of science.
Until Victory is won, everything Pan American has to offer-the experience gained by more than 165 mil-
lion miles of overseas flight, trained personnel and service to over 60 foreign countries and colonies-is at
work for the government and military services of the United States.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM