A list #f some of the organizations from which letters were received in connection with Pan American Airways’ “Forum of the Future“
University of Mississippi Army Air Forces
United States Department of Agriculture Farm Credit Administration of Springfield, Mass.
William E. Rudge’s Sons, Publishers, New York
Mills College, California Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America
Department of Correction,
City of New York
Monroe High School, Rochester, N. Y. Progress Brand Clothes Inc.,
Montreal, Canada
Crucible Steel Company of America Parade Publication, Inc.
The Pilgrim Press, Boston, Massachusetts Christian Herald
The Saturday Review of Literature Foster & Stewart, Publishers,
Buffalo, N. Y.
Christ Church, Cincinnati, Ohio First Baptist Church, Lynchburg, Va. Kellogg Company
Henry George School of Social Science Methodist Church, Plainfield, Iowa United Lutheran Publication House, Philadelphia, Pa.
The New Yorker Magazine Greenbelt Elementary School, Maryland First Methodist Church, Campbell, Calif. The American Way Associates, Inc. University of Texas
Marchant Calculating Machine Company Hotels Statler Company, Inc.
First Congregational Church,
Madison, Wise.
Thomas A. Edison of Canada, Limited Christ Church, Fitchburg, Mass.
Marine Corps Air Station,
Cherry Point, N. C.
Office of Civilian Defense,
Washington, D. C.
Alameda Times-Star, Alameda, Calif. Woman’s Society of Christian Service Metropolitan Life Insurance Company The Theosophical Society,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
United Service Organization Department of Munitions and Supply, Ottawa, Canada
Lynchburg College, Lynchburg, Va. California Federation of Business & Professional Women’s Clubs Eastern Cooperative League,
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Pence’s, The Color Center, Aurora, 111.
Dartmouth Eye Institute, Hanover, N. H. Life Magazine Swannanoa Public Schools,
Swannanoa, N. C.
Army & Navy Register,
Washington, D. C.
Car Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio Department of Missionary Education, Nashville, Tenn.
British Overseas Airways Corporation Committee on Post-War Readjustment, Boston, Mass.
The Cooperative League of the United States of America The Hogg Foundation,
University of Texas Department of Psychology,
Dartmouth College Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company The Catholic University of America Mt. Carmel Academy, Wichita, Kansas Bureau of Education of the Archdiocese of Dubuque, Iowa
Saint Mary’s Convent, Pittsburgh, Pa. Seton Hill College University of Notre Dame Fordham University School of Law Xaverian Brothers, Mt. Saint Joseph, Baltimore, Md.
Dunbarton College of Holy Cross, Washington, D. C.
Diocese of Indianapolis, Indiana College of Notre Dame of Maryland, Baltimore St. Andrew-on-Hudson,
Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Resurrection High School,
Chicago 31, 111.
Saint Clare Academy, Sylvania, Ohio Maryknoll Seminary, Maryknoll, N. Y. Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, Fordham University Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wise. National Catholic Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C.
St. Francis Convent, Baltimore, Md.
St. Joseph’s Seminary, Washington, D. C. Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa Villanova College, Pa.
Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon Academy of the Sacred Heart,
St. Charles, Mo.
Provincial Convent of the Good Shepherd, Peekskill, N. Y.
College Misericordia, Dallas, Pa. Archdiocese of San Francisco Archdiocese of Los Angeles