"We are	fiqhtinq • • • the
Social Emancipation of the familq11
•••a 5 point post-war proqram bq ARCHBISHOP STRITCH,
CHAIRMAN OF THE BISHOPS'COMMITTEE ON THE POPES PEACE PLAN
THERE is a world order planned by God — a family of nations in which the immutable moral law, written in human reason, is the bond of union and charity—the guarantee of peace.
The Axis seeks to do violence to this world order and sets up its own plan which calls for serf nations under the world domination of a single people, and even within that nation offers only political bondage to its citizens.
This Axis plan is a direct, violent attack on our Christian culture. Against it we must fight for our social and political heritage. There may be differences of political systems in the family of nations, but there must be in all of them the guarantee of native, human rights and freedoms and honest, sincere efforts for an enduring, just world peace.
When we talk of post-war problems we must not forget that these problems must be considered and studied on the background of our culture.
We want no substitution for our social and political heritage, and we ask of other nations only that in their political systems they recognize basic human rights and the fact of human solidarity in international relations; that they accept the limitations of civil authority which the moral law imposes. Never for a moment must we forget that a just, enduring world peace must accept, as its prologue, Christian ethics.
The following points describe in large outline the sort of world in which our culture can grow and flourish:
Every historic nation must be recognized as a juridic person with the inherent rights of sovereignty and independence. The peace must guarantee to every nation, large or small, strong or weak, these rights. There must be no exploitation of the weak by the strong and peoples which have not yet reached adult age in the family of nations must be protected and their resources safeguarded for their own benefit. The notions of colonies, which in a past age prevailed, must be cast aside and the nations must assume the duty of honest tutelage and disinterested trusteeship over the peoples which are still without full national personality. It is important that when victory comes to us, justice and not vengeance must dictate our attitude toward the vanquished, and whei'e justice falls short, enlightened charity must be our guide.
2
A postulate for an enduring peace is the deliverance of the nations from the insupportable burden of large armaments which so absorb national economic resources as to make social justice impossible. When a nation is forced to expend one half of the national income on armaments, there is
Among previous contributors to Pan American’s “Forum of the Future” have been China’s Dr. Hu Shih, Mexico’s Señor Padilla and England’s Archbishop of Canterbury. Here we present a statement of the fundamentals necessary for a lasting peace as conceived by The Most Reverend Samuel A. Striteh, Archbishop of Chicago.