What kind of post-war world are we fighting to create? Pan American’s “Forum of the Future” has previously presented answers to this question by such leaders of world thought as John Dewey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia and Ezequiel Padilla, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico. Here we present a view of the future from a distinguished statesman of another of our Latin American “Good Neighbors”—BRAZIL.
If
Respect for human personality • •.
Co-operation between	...
these are the fundamentals of a	peace "
-says OSWALDO ARAN HA
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Brazil
One thing is certain: exactly what the world of tomorrow will be, no one can say. On the other hand, we do knowr at this time what the world of tomorrow will not be.
It will not be, for example, a kingdom of brute force.
It will not be a world where nations are reduced to slavery by a so-called “superior race,” and, finally ... it will not be a world where self-centered peoples will be able to live in isolation.
The fundamental principle of all nations will be that of co-operation. Within these nations there may be varying forms of government. But, as far as the common man is concerned, there is no denying that the democratic system offers him all the means for—
1.	voluntary organization;
2.	organization in keeping with the main trend of history;
3.	organization which safeguards his traditions and his economic interests.
When it comes to isolationists, they must be recognized frankly for what they are<—sufferers from the delusion that liberty can exist in one country at the expense of other countries. That is why collective societies will be so vital to world order because only such groups will accord to other collective societies the same right to Liberty which they themselves possess.
We are approaching an era without precedent in all history. The practical application of innumerable inventions in Physics, Chemistry and Biology is transforming our life. Each new invention makes it easier for humanity to use Nature’s resources and therefore to progress.
In the future, the good things which God has scattered through the mystery of Nature will no longer be
the privilege only of some; they will become the privilege of all.
However, in order that the nations shall benefit from these possibilities, it will he necessary to wipe out wars.
Thus it comes about that our generation’s task and its duty is to conquer the anti-human and anti-social totalitarian tyrants. In addition, we must organize and guarantee a lasting peace, in keeping with the will of the people.
Only the democracies, since they are founded upon “respect for human personality,” will be able to establish such a peace, based on respect for the world’s collective societies.
* * *
free men and free peoples. Within these five short words are encompassed all our ideals of a “better world.” This is the world we of the Americas dream about—the democratic world which will, without doubt, be.
(Signed)
In the world of tomorrow — the world which Senhor Aranha predicts will “not be a kingdom of brute force” — much of the earth’s culture, science and goods will be distributed by global air transport.
It is a fact that as airplanes grow in size, something very important happens . . . More “payload” (passengers and cargo) can be carried in relation to the plane’s total weight. This will materially help to bring passenger and cargo rates on the new, much larger Clippers within reach of average men and women in many lands.
Today, of course, every Pan American facility — including the scientific data built up by 215,000,000 miles of over-ocean flight — is at work for the government and military services of the United States.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM