"The FULL development of Individual Personality "
,,o6 point post-war proqram bi| THE ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
What kind of a world are we fighting to create?
Fan American has presented answers to this question hy America s greatphilosopher, Dr. John Dewey, and by Dr. Hu Shih, recently Chinese Ambassador to the United States.
Herewith we present a statement written for Americans and people throughout the world by the Most Reverend William Temple (Cantuar) the Archbishop of Canterbury.
HE STRUCTURE OF LIFE as we knew it before the war has already been profoundly modified. How far do we want to restore it if we can?
The task of the Church in face of social problems is to make good Christian men and women. That is by far its most important contribution.
But it is also part of the duty of a Christian to judge how far particular evils are symptoms of a disease deeper than the evils themselves.
There is nothing wrong about profits as such. It has always been recognized that both the producer and the trader are entitled to a profit which they have earned by their service to the community. But it is possible, nonetheless, for these two to get in the wrong order. Then the consumer is treated only as a means to success . . . whereas he ought to be considered the whole end of the process.
If that is true, it is the duty of Christians to become
t +
aware of it and to demand a remedy. I offer these suggestions as a goal to aim at immediately:
(1)	Every child should find itself a member of a family housed with decency and dignity, so that it may grow up in a happy fellowship unspoiled by under-feeding—or overcrowding, by dirty and drab surroundings or by mechanical monotony of environment.
(2)	Every child should have the opportunity of an education till years of maturity. This education should be inspired by faith in God and find its focus in worship.
(3)	Every citizen should be secure in possession of such income as will enable him to maintain a home and bring up children in such conditions as are described in paragraph 1 above.
(4)	Every citizen should have a voice in the conduct of the business or industry which is carried on by means of his labour, and the satisfaction of knowing that his labour is directed to the well-being of the community.
(,5) After the war, every citizen should have sufficient daily leisure, with two days of rest in seven, and an annual holiday with pay, to enable him to enjoy a full personal life.
(6) Every citizen should have assured liberty in the forms of freedom of worship, of speech, of assembly, and of association for special purposes.
Utopian? Only in the sense that we cannot have it all tomorrow. But we can set ourselves steadily to advance towards that six-fold objective. It can all be summed up in a phrase: the aim of a Christian social order is the fullest possible development of individual personality in the widest and deepest possible fellowship.
* * *
I should give a false impression of my own convictions if I did not here add that there is no hope of establishing a more Christian social order except through the labour and sacrifice of those in whom the Spirit of Christ is active.
t //¿flu-
1	'	ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY
Never before in the world’s history has the "brotherhood of man’’ been so close to reality as it is today.
For, the instant we win this war, all geographical barriers will disappear. The "foreigner” who used to be strange and different because he lived across an ocean, will become as familiar to you as the man in the next town. London and Paris will be ten hours from New York -—Chungking, China, twenty hours from San Francisco.
And this travel will not be just for the well-to-do. Pan American’s knowledge of technological improvements (based on more than 120,000,000 miles of overseas flight) indicates that air travel costs will be brought down within reach of the average man and woman.
Today, of course, Pan American’s every transport facility is working overtime to help make possible the Victory on which all our plans for a better world must be built.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
Pan American Cuppers