little hope of its being able to plan a sane, beneficent national economy. In the program for reasonable disarmament it must hot be overlooked that propaganda and ideological intrigue have been major factors in creating the existing world tragedy.
International co-operation for the preservation of world peace is necessary, and there should be set up by treaties an association of the nations which will make the peace treaty a living, workable thing by interpreting it and introducing into it changes which changing conditions may make imperative. In this association of nations there need be no surrender of sovereignty except in the measure in which sovereignty is limited by international treaties.
The need of one nation never justifies the murder or the robbing of another nation. Yet nations do experience real needs which can be satisfied only in international co-operation. The peacemakers must search out diligently the needs of each nation, carefully evaluate them and earnestly try to satisfy them. Here it must be remembered that minorities have rights, and these rights must be respected.
Religion alone can give life, authority and binding force to human law and international agreements. The moral code of the natural law must be the basis of international law, and religion everywhere must enjoy that freedom which permits it to minister to the higher needs of man and to be the bulwark of social justice and social charity. Materialism, in all its manifestations, is in contradiction with our culture and the safeguarding of our basic freedoms.
Never for a moment must we lose sight of the fact that we are fighting for a victory which will purify and invigorate our culture ... And that culture is a family society. The rights, dignity and sanctity of the family are imbedded in it. What has happened in our times to weaken the stability of the familv, to supplant it by state controls, militates against a beneficent Christian world order.
The peace crusader, in his undertaking to defend human rights and dignity, must also encompass in his aims the social emancipation of the family.
‘Religion alone can give life and binding force to international agreements
A..
j/Ö
ARCHBISHOr OF CHICAGO
In the world of the future— a world which, as Archbishop Stritch says, must be delivered “from the insupportable burden of large armaments”—civil air transport will come into its own.
Fares will be lower, airplane speeds higher. The average American and his family will be able to visit the Holy Land (only 24 hours including stops
from New York by Clipper) on a two weeks’ vacation. Much of the earth’s culture, science and goods will be distributed by over-ocean passenger and cargo planes.
Today, of course, every Pan American facility is at work for the government and military services of the United States. Since Pearl Harbor, Pan American flight crews have completed over 5,000 transocean crossings.
-
/If AV.TFRICA/VWORLD AIR WAVS
■MHHI