What kind of world are we fighting to create? Pan American’s “Forum of the Future has presented answers to this question by such social scientists and religious leaders as John Dewey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Stephen Leacock and Dr. Compton of M. I. T. Here we present a suggested solution for the world’s over-populated areas.
"Mans path ofprogress leads NORTH"
famous arctic explorer VILHJALMUR
Three thousand years ago the centers of world power were in or near the Tropics; now the capital of every great military power except China is closer to the Arctic than to the Equator.
As our centers of population are moving north our thoughts are turning north, our skyways are trending north. From New York the shortest way to Tokyo is through Alaska, the shortest to Moscow is through Iceland, the shortest to Chungking is almost exactly across the Pole. “North to Everywhere” is soon to become the airway slogan of more than a thousand million people who dwell in the North Temperate Zone.
These new Arctic routes will do far more than link existing centers of world trade. They will open up a whole new commercial empire to the benefit of the common man.
* * *
Chief among mankind’s needs in the post-war world may well be food—and the Arctic has untapped food resources in abundance!
Spreading away from the Arctic Mediterranean are vast grazing lands—millions of square miles of verdant pasture. There the native ovibos (musk ox) and reindeer (caribou) will help solve the post-war feeding problems of expanding nations by supplying meat quite as good as beef and mutton. There, also, are some of the richest fisheries on earth—salmon, herring, cod . . .
There, under a sun that gives as much heat per midsummer day as at the Equator, on soil free of drought, the native verdure is being replaced by cultivated fields and gardens that are the marvel and delight of tourists. In the Yukon, Mackenzie and Lena valleys the new farms remind you of Minnesota and Maine.
Long known, also, is the additional wealth that lies in Arctic furs, in gold, radium and other precious minerals, in copper, coal, and iron. Oil has been found in Alaska; it flows already in northern Canada and Arctic Siberia.
We have come not to the northern limit but to a northern threshold of commercial progress. There is no northern boundary beyond which productive enterprise cannot go till North meets North on the shores of the Arctic Mediterranean.
Since 1932 it has been Pan American’s privilege to retain on its staff as northern adviser—Vilhjalmur Stefansson— world authority on polar climate, resources, and weather.
Under his supervision observation bases have been staffed and operated, surface and air routes have been explored, invaluable scientific data has become the property of Pan American World Airways. Today, of course, every Pan American facility—including the scientific data built up by more than 260,000,000 miles of over-ocean flight—is at work for the government and military services of the United States.