Pan American’s "Forum of the Future” has published statements from leaders of thought in many lands. There have been answers from philosophers like John Dewey, statesmen like Jan Masaryk of Czechoslovakia and churchmen like the Archbishop of Canterbury. Here a famous American scientist and educator gives you his view of the future.
"SCIENCE...
the common man's best friend
a look into the future by D R. KARL To COM PTO N 9 physicist and president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Throughout history, in order to obtain the material things they have always wanted, men have used three basic methods: hard, work, plunder and inventive genius, which is the skillful combination of creative imagination and accurate knowledge when applied to accomplish a desired objective.
Hard physical work is still the method followed by the great majority of the human race. In the “sweat of the brow” they earn their daily bread.
The second method, almost as old as the first, is to wait until your neighbor has harvested his crop, created a thing of beauty, or acquired a desirable possession by honest trading—and then rob him l This is the German method, the Japanese method—the gangster’s method.
When practiced by large groups, this method is called conquest. The “superior race”—(that is the plunderers)— live handsomely without work. Their victims, without hope for the future, work for their masters as slaves. This is an unproductive and, in the end, a destructive method. We are fighting this war to abolish this method.
The third method, which I have called inventive genius, enabled man ages ago to discover the use of fire; later, the wheel; later still, the sailing ship. In its advanced and more modern form we know this method as Science.
The aim of science (except in the hands of tyrannical perverts) is not to enslave men. The aim of science is to free men from drudgery by putting Nature to work. Science is the best friend the common man has ever had in the whole history of mankind.
Here are a few of the things science will be able to give the world, once Victory brings us lasting peace:
Aluminum or magnesium alloy automobiles, twenty years ahead of the last (1942) models, will weigh half what they do now, have sealed cooling systems, give 30 to 35 miles or more to the gallon of gas.
New appetizing food products, containing all essential ingredients for health and strength, will be packaged for easy distribution and storage and available at such low price as practically to eliminate under-nourishment.
Super cargo and luxury passenger airplanes will economically reach every part of the world on schedules as reliable as for travel on land or sea, while the family can travel safely in a private helicopter or autogiro easily maneuverable in restricted areas.
In medicine, conquest of the common cold and more dangerous diseases, by use of sulfa and similar new drugs, may outweigh this war’s loss of life many times over. I hope so.
Hundreds of new light materials, unknown outside of the laboratory ten years ago, will revolutionize our lives. They should lift men as far above the Steel Age as the Steel Age lifted us above the Bronze—if not farther.
To win these and many other clear gains, the lessons of our recent experience seem clear.
As a marauding wolf is shot, or a robber is imprisoned to protect the community^ so, in the future, must all peace-and freedom-loving nations act quickly and ruthlessly to stop and punish every act of international armed aggression. Then—and then only—will common men everywhere enter into the fuller life toward which the guiding hand of science now points.
(Signed) i^asJL. 7^ Crw^i^rv.
Of all the vehicles ever invented by man, the airplane puts the greatest premium on light weight. To Pan American, then, the coming of “new light materials,” prophesied by Dr. Compton, opens up transportation vistas almost without limit.
Before the war we had placed orders for giant Clippers which would have brought London and Paris within ten hours of New York . . . Chungking, China, within twenty hours of San Francisco. Light metals will allow manufacturers to decrease weight still further, while increasing pounds carried per horsepower, thus common men everywhere will be able to travel by Clipper.
Today, of course, every Pan American facility is working to hasten the Victory on which all our plans for a better world must be built.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS SYSTEM
Pan American Clippers
