of the people will be to the people
What kind of a world are we fighting to create?
Pan American has asked John Dewey, America’s most eminent philosopher— and other leaders of thought—to give you his answer to this vital question. Here is Mr. Dewey’s statement:
There is nothing permanent except change;
wrote that great Greek philosopher, Heraclitus, over two thousand years ago.
Today it seems to me, looking back over my fourscore years of work and study, that too few men have recently paid attention to this great truth.
Every day I hear people talking about the future in terms of “after the last war.” But this is another war. What comes after this war will not be what came after the last one. Men have changed, living conditions have changed, ideas have changed.
Just as this is a new-style war, so the peace will be— must be—new-style, also. Military triumph, followed by truce, is not enough. Peace alone will not settle things permanently. Peace offers only an opportunity for building a better world.
WE HAVE BEEN PROMISED a people's world of security and opportunity after the war. But unless the peace is a people's peace, the promises may fail.
More than at any previous time in the world’s history, the future is up to the people. They must see that the victory is a true victory for the democratic nations.
Of course, there will be no short cuts to our goal. The widespread plenty, the higher standards of life for all—these will come slowly and painfully, as they always have. But they will come surely, inevitably, if we keep our vision clear, and direct our energies into productive channels.
^ *
The opportunities for us, the people of the United States, will be tremendous. A means for widely distributing the world’s goods among all nations must be provided ... A way of carrying health and education and a higher standard of life to the utmost corners of the earth must be assured.
The mechanical means have already been produced by science and invention. Physically, the world is now one and interdependent. Only human beings—interested that men everywhere have a society of peace, of security, of opportunity, of growth in co-operation— can assure its being made morally one.
A genuine democratic victory will be achieved only when it is made by democratic governments for the well-being of the common people of the earth.
The part which air transport will play in the vast post-war adjustments and developments is, of course, obvious to everyone.
Inexpensive, fast passenger and freight carrying—with air travel on a global scale available to all—will be one of the most important single factors of the future.
Pan American has an experience record based on over 110 million miles of overseas flight. Nothing like this fund of scientific fact exists anywhere else in the world today. All of
it—and also our carrying services and trained personnel—have been placed at the disposal of the state and military services of the United States Government, for the duration.
When peace comes, Pan American looks forward to playing its part, with technological research and trained personnel, in providing the widespread distribution of the world’s goods” which Mr. Dewey recognizes as an essential for a lasting peace. Pan American World Airways System.
WINGS
