THE COMMON MAN BELIEVES . . .
Telegram from the editor of a newspaper . . .“The Pan American double-spread featuring message of Archbishop of Canterbury one of most inspiring and morale-building pieces of the year.”
From the mother of two boys ... “I send you my word of appreciation and it is very much from the heart. . . How discerning of you to have included the views of William Temple in your symposium ... I have two sons, fifteen and seventeen. This young generation is in general serious-minded. It is also war-minded . . . In this hallowed ground the ideas you are disseminating take root. As a worker in former years for world peace, I feel too grateful to remain silent.”
From a man in Chicago ... “I consider that advertisement” (Archbishop of Canterbury) “one of the most outstanding, revolutionary contributions to the field of advertising in many months . . . your advertisement does not promise to give the reader a lift,’ to overcome that tired nervous feeling, make one popular, or make one resemble a movie actor or actress. It merely tells what one world statesman thinks of the future in store for every man’s child regardless of race, creed or color ... I salute you for daring to be different. May the coming season’s holidays give you strength and courage to carry on.”
From a lady in Connecticut . . . “This is just to thank you for your striking advertisement ... I am using it in every parish meeting, where church groups meet for discussion and it is such a stimulant! Can you tell me if it is permitted to send a reprint air-mail to a missionary at Cape Mount, Liberia, West Africa?”
From a Washington, D. C. school teacher ... “I am a teacher of children who in a few years will have to see the peace through. I have read, and was much impressed by your recent advertisement stating the six-point, post-war objective of the Archbishop of Canterbury. It seems to me those ideals should be kept in the minds and hearts of all people who hope for a better world after this war ... If you could send me a reproduction of the advertisement I should be most grateful. I am eager to share it with my pupils.”
12