lfloCv.de	—
~~tf huvkc. -Ptz, ~PLr THU- M/wl, "
DOCTOR HU SHIH
What kind of future are we fighting for? Last month Pan American presented the answer of John Dewey, America’s great philosopher.
Here Dr. Hu Shih, Chinese Ambassador to the Untied States, and one of the eminent scholars of our time, tells you what he sees—for tomorrow.
CIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY have made the world a physical unity. But man’s backwardness in political thinking and planning has failed miserably to consolidate this physically unified world into a political and moral world-community.
It is this same political backwardness that has permitted the present unprecedented catastrophe to befall entire humanity.
We are in the midst of the greatest war in human history. And we are confident that the great forces for peace and freedom will eventually win.
But it is not enough to win this war, Mankind must resolve to make this "the Last War." Mankind and its civilization cannot stand another war of this magnitude and deadliness.
I firmly believe that if the people have the will to make this "the Last War," so shall it be!
The Will to make this "the Last War” will create a powerful demand for the ending of international anarchy and for the establishment of a new World Order which, in the words of the Atlantic Charter, "will afford to all nations the means of dwelling in safety within their own boundaries."
Mankind must demand a World Order which will afford to all nations, great or small, the Freedom from Fear of Aggression—the most essential of the "Four Freedoms,”—without which the other three Freedoms can never be secure.
We must demand, therefore, that the peace which will come after this war should at least provide:
(1)	a jural order of the world in which international disputes are to be decided and settled by orderly processes;
(2)	an internationally organized world police force for the effective maintenance of peace and enforcement of law and order; and
(3)	a judicious international control of the world's strategic mineral resources for the dual purpose of insuring their equitable use for the economic well-being of mankind, and effectively prevent aggressive armaments of individual nations.
All of us must learn the plain lesson of history that law and order and peace never mean the absence offorce, but are always dependent upon organized force for effective enforcement.
This shall be "the Last War" only if we can organize the world’s economic and military power to make recurrence of aggressive wars impossible.
IL ^
AS LONG AGO AS 1937, Dr. Hu Shih flew from Hankow, TV China, to Hongkong, where the Pan American Trans-Pacific Clippers took him to San Francisco. The journey lasted 7 days, but actual flying time from Hankow to San Francisco was only 80 hours.
Steadily since that time, five years ago, aviation has made tremendous advances. Very soon after the war is over, it will be possible for the average American and his family to board a Clipper and spend their two weeks’ vacation in China ... or Brazil, or Russia or Egypt, or any other distant part of the globe.
Tomorrow’s air transport will make that possible. Pan American Airways, which in 14 years and 120 million
miles of operation has already blazed air transport service to 68 foreign lands, confidently looks forward to placing superb global passenger and cargo service within reach of common man.
This belief is based on technological research and equipment improvements constantly pursued by Pan American’s veteran personnel. Its realization will be a signal contribution to Dr. Hu Shih’s better world.
Today, of course, everything that Pan American can offer — experience and trained personnel, transport operations and facilities—has been placed at the disposal of the governmental and military services of the United States— for the duration.
Pan American World Airways System
m/t/UER/mctmser