Sule Pagoda Road and Nam Sin on Prome Road (8 miles) provide excellent Chinese food, as does Thamaing Restaurant on Insein Road. Food is not expensive in Burma. Usual rates are not more than $2 per person.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . For men, linen or any other light-material suits are recommended; for women, washable linen or cotton dresses. Rangoon is not a “dressy” place, but it is a good idea to bring your tropical “formals” along. Sun-glasses are indispensable. Light suits will do fine for any weather in Burma; raincoats are essential.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Rangoon . . . The capital of Burma, situated in the low hills about 24 miles from the sea, Rangoon is one of the most attractive cities in the East. It combines the mystery and religious charm of the East with all the modern facilities of the West. It is well laid out, with pleasant tree-lined streets, parks and gardens; there are two fine lakes, Royal Lake and Victoria Lake, in the center of the city. The people are friendly and cheerful and highly attractive in their gay and colorful dress. Although conducted sightseeing tours are not available, jeep taxis or limousines may be hired at low rates for such a purpose, about $2 an hour for the vehicle. Here are the main sightseeing places in Rangoon:
Shwedagon Pagoda towers about 326 feet from the summit of a hill near the heart of the city and is a welcoming landmark that greets every traveler, by sea or air, to Burma. It is the largest pagoda of its kind in the world and attracts many Buddhist pilgrims from all over the world every year. It is the number-one place of sightseeing interest for tourists. Also in Rangoon is the picturesque Sule Pagoda, situated exactly in the heart of the city. The Kodatkyi Pagoda, near the Shwedagon, is a large reclining image of Buddha and is about 65 feet in height. (A larger seated image of Buddha is in Pegu, about 50 miles east of Rangoon. It is over 150 feet in height.)
Other attractions include the colorful bazaars bustling with activity; the cigar-rolling center where Burmese girls may be seen wrapping and rolling the tobacco leaf; umbrella shops, where skillful workers produce gorgeous umbrellas of silk and bamboo; workshops that produce silverwork or wool and ivory carvings; the National Museum; the State Library; and the State Institute of Fine Arts; Burmese costume drama, dancing, or puppet shows which can be seen frequently in the Burmese quarter of the city.
Burmese marriage ceremonies, the Shinpyus of young Burmese males when they are initiated into monkhood, and earring-boring ceremonies for young Burmese girls are other occasions of immense interest; the Rangoon Zoo and the occasional snake-kissing show, featuring the king cobra and the woman snake charmer; the busy port and teeming wharves; the campus of the University of Rangoon; the excellent race track; and various buildings of religious worship are all interesting.
Note . . . Although there are now restrictions on some travel outside of Rangoon, the following are principal places of sightseeing in-