American’s Round-the-World routes. It is 2 Vi hours from Calcutta, 114 hours from Bangkok, 60 hours (elapsed time) from San Francisco and other West Coast cities. By ship to Rangoon from New York via Britain takes about 40 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS . . . There are several hotels, but only one first-class hotel (by Far Eastern standards) in Rangoon, the Strand, operated by a British mercantile firm. It has excellent service. The hotel is located on Strand Road facing the harbor, close to the business and shopping area. American Plan, year around rate is about $11. It is important to reserve rooms at the Strand well in advance.
CLIMATE . . . Like most other semi-tropical countries, Burma has only three seasons. The “hot season” from March to May is uncomfortable weather with temperatures reaching above 100 degrees at noon; during the “rainy season” from June to October, the weather is moderately cool, but the rain may stretch out into days; and the “cool season” from November to February has temperatures around the 70’s. Humidity is high during the hot and rainy seasons; the best time to visit is during the cool season.
CURRENCY . . . The unit of Burmese currency is the kyat, which is divided into 100 pyas. The exchange value of the kyat is about 21 cents (U.S.) or K 4.76 to a U.S. dollar. The kyat is at par with the Indian rupee. Currency is controlled and exchange may be made only at the authorized banks.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS . . . Passport and visa required. Also health certificate and smallpox vaccination. Travelers intending to stay beyond 10 days are required to report to the Foreigners Registration Bureau within 72 hours of arrival. Exit permits are also required before leaving the country. Currency must be declared. Check on foreign currency restrictions. One still and one movie camera per person. Guns and a limited amount of ammunition are allowed into the country after all entry formalities have been complied with. Radios may be brought in after payment of duty. Travelers are also allowed to bring in or take out, duty free, 50 cigarettes, 25 cigars or Va pound tobacco, and 1 quart of liquor. There is no restriction on food.
FOOD . . . Burmese food is strikingly similar to Indian, Siamese and Malay food and consists of rice and curry. Curry dishes are generally meat or vegetables or a mixture, cooked with a liberal admixture of spices, pepper, onions and sesamum oil. Rice is the staple diet at all meals. Most hotels and restaurants serve Western food as well as Chinese and Indian dishes. The average cost of meals is about $2 for a person at high-class restaurants.
RESTAURANTS... In Rangoon the Strand Hotel is the most popular Western-type restaurant. Orient Hotel on Sule Pagoda Road, Sun Café on Pagoda Road, and Green Hotel on Phayre Street provide various kinds of Western, Indian and Chinese dishes. Wah Yin on