FASTER, MORE FREQUENT SERVICE Pan Am Jet Clippers are the finest wayflf Europe, with more frequent flights and more room and comfort than any other aircraft in service. Before yavou know it. voxL'WMherel 'and your trip has nstl been whittled away in the going.
VISIT EXTRA CITIES AT NO EXTRA FARE Whatever^lvWr ultimate destination Pan Am’s Extra Ci|ies Bonus Plan offers you a variety of routings that permit yo,u to enjoy -\Hsits in many additional cities, often far off the: direct- route, yet pay sthe same Round Trip fare as for the direct flight. You can go via one European gateway and return through another.
YOUR CHOICE OF 2 GREAT SERVICES Pan Am’s famous Rairibow service, at low economy; class fares, offers you the comfort of a cloud-soft, reclining seat, bar service, complimentary hjft-meals — plus the hospitality and dependability for which Pan Am is known around ffte^world. And the President Special, at regular firstrclass fares, is the ultimate in comfort and service .. more attendants to serve fewer passengers, superbly prepared full-course meals, complete with cbmpli-mentary cocktails, vintage wines, and liqueurs ... extra room to relax and stroll about, including a luxurious lounge.
COST-INCLUSIVE PAN AM HOLIDAYS Ipt you see more, dp: more — with everything arranged in advance, so you know exactly how much your trip will cost. You travel famous Clipper style, stay at selected hotels, enjoy a prearranged program which leaves you plenty of time for shopping and exploring on your own. Your Pan Am office or Travel Agent can help you adapt one ra! many such Holidays 't'qjjnx .your purse and purpose.
SPECIAL 17-DAY EXCURSION FARES Ask about Pan Am’s low 17-Day Excursion fares which may be in effect at the time you plan to travel. Typical example: New York/Paris round trip, only $449.
NEW HORIZONS— GUIDE TO THE WORLD For authentic, up-to-the-minute data on what to wear, see and do in the Mediterranean area — and in496 countries all around the world — get a copy of Pan Am’s best-selling New Horizons World Guide, available from, your Travel Agent or Pan American office for just $2.
The Mediterranean means bright leisure and pUre pleasure for you. Sunny beaches are yours for the basking you can sail on blue waters... battle big-game fish. This play^ world offers endless recreation. For complete freedom, try a Fly-Drive by Pan Am Jet Clipper and rent a car in Europe. Or you can buy one save enough to pay for most of your trip).
Magnificent coastline roads and mountain passes make for thrilling driving. And wherever you stop . . . Malaga, Barcelona, Nice . . . Rome or Athens . . . Beirut or Istanbul... you'll be promptly caught up in the Mediterranean's carefree, zestful life.
By day, you can golf, boat, skin-dive, fish ... or picnic and swim at a secluded beach. And there's an infinite variety of unforgettable night life ... from intimate cabarets to marbled and mirrored Casinos ... from night-club floor shows to grand opera.
Everywhere you turn, there's another tempting spot... the fabled islands of the Mediterranean ... superb beaches along the Adriatic... the mosques and romance of the Middle East. Traveling by Jet Clipper lets you spend almost all your travel time in the world's playground ... now just a few hours away.®
		
		
		
		
		