YOUR CAMERA WILL BLINK. Co,or) co,or and more
color— that's Hawaii! Flaming foliage, green and purple valleys, rainbow-hued sunsets, snow-crowned mountain summits, the deep blue of the ocean mirroring cloud-flecked skies . . . With a camera you can bring home never-ending reminders of these beauties that defy description.
TRAVEL IS EASY. Inter-island travel in the Hawaiian Islands is frequent and speedy. "Short-line" transport planes of various sizes and overnight or daytime steamers afford a delightful means of visiting all of the islands. In addition, regular transportation lines, over a network of good roads, give access to major cities and sightseeing attractions.
ATTIRE —INFORMAL. ,n Hawaii, where “It’s always May" (average temperature 75°), everyone leads a year 'round outdoor life. You’ll be in fashion if you dress to fit the climate and the occasion. Clothes and "accessories" you'd bring to a summer resort at home will do here, too.
ENTERTAINMENT —
Honolulu on Kamehameha Day — bands, cowboys, flower-bedecked floats from every island on display. Watching Hula dancers, swaying to seductive native rhythms, listening to the stirring chants of ancient legends, you'll agree that joy in Hawaii is unconfined.
FINEST ACCOMMODATIONS,
PEOPLE YOU’LL MEET. «¡,
ipling's “East is East, and West is West," should actually end with, “and here the twain shall meet," for in Hawaii many races and ways have met and blended. For a taste of Old Hawaii visit the Kona district, birthplace and vacation land of ancient kings, where many of their descendants still live a semi-primitive existence.
Palatial beach-front hotels, smaller residential hotels and attractive garden cottages offer a wide range of good places to stay. As is true elsewhere these days, it is suggested that you secure confirmed reservations before coming to Hawaii.
FOR DISCRIMINATING TASTES.
RELAXING IS FU
For sheer delight, nothing could excel Hawaii’s facilities for utter relaxation. Two thousand miles from business you can relax in an island paradise and banish work and worry from your thoughts. Yet, if need be, you can be home in a matter of mere hours — thanks to the Flying. Clipper services of Pan American World Airways.
Hawaiians, are past masters at turning out tempting, appetizing dishes of fruits, fish and vegetables. Don't miss a Luau (Hawaiian for big banquet) with lomi-lomi (crushed salmon) purple poi, lau-laus (butterfish and pork) with coconuts and fresh pineapple. The melon-like papaia, too, will intrigue you.