The birthplace of rainbows, say native legends, is incomparable Rainbow Falls, near Hilo.
Real cowboys, with all the "trimmings” ride these ranges. One Hawaiian ranch is second in size to the largest in the U, S. A.
Salt water sailors and “landlubbers” can share the thrills of yachting where Diamond Head casts its shadow over foam-capped, waves.
Like graceful dolphins, these experts knife through the blue Pacific combers on their slender surfboards.
Opportunities abound for all sorts of recreation-tennis, horseback riding, and golf on perfect fairways carved by Nature out of scenic settings,
VACATION LAND OF VIVID CONTRASTS
e^nagine yourself stepping from your Flying Clipper into a midocean Paradise more beautiful than you ever dreamed could exist . . . where "It’s always May” . .. where flowers grow in such profusion that even cowboys and truck drivers wear blossoms in their hats and your arrival is greeted with beautiful, fragrant lets, those traditional tokens of friendship.
e^^awaii is so beautiful that the islanders invented a dance (the hula) to express their pleasure with the gifts of Nature. You’ll be amazed at the wealth and variety of scenic attractions Hawaii offers—snow-capped mountains, palm-fringed beaches, flaming volcanic firepits, lace-like waterfalls, modern city life.
You’ll race surfboards or outrigger canoes through foaming breakers, explore by horseback the weird volcanic formations in the depths of mighty Haleakala crater, or drive through Honolulu’s Oriental business district, past Golden Shower trees and hedges of night-blooming cereus.
Grand Canyon In miniature is breathtaking Waimea Canyon, on Kauai, the "Garden Island" named for its lush, flaming foliage.
The golden sands of Waikiki, where Queen Liliuokalani and children of the royal house once swam, can be your sportive playground. (Diamond Head in the distance).
fj$ter a day spent in coral gardens, ferny grottos, or in beautiful Manoa, "Valley of the Rainbows”, you’re ready for an evening of delight. Watching the glorious sunset, dining and dancing under the stars that cast shimmering paths across the sea, lulled to sleep by the night winds’ rustle in the swaying palms, you’ll agree that Hawaii has everything for a perfect holiday.
The subtle rhythms of the graceful hula will entrance you.
Every little movement, has a meaning all its own.1
Cooled by the sea breezes, sheltered by the stately palms, your hotel room here makes for perfect living comfort during your Hawaiian holiday.
When sea and sky blush crimson in the light of evening you’ll toast the sunset and your wisdom in choosing Hawaii for your holiday.
Luscious pineapple comes from this giant plantation. There's something about a Hawaiian sun that brings out the true flavor of this delicious fruit.	.«¿tj
?»
Printed in U.S.A.
Copyright 1947, Pan American Airways, Inc.
World Al
y,n9
T-	—— j •* -■	
	' f