From the mists of Time, from the illimitable blue vastness of the Pacific, came the Polynesians..
Searching for new homes eastward beyond the wide ocean, guiding their frail craft by the glittering pinpricks in the heavens, they came at last to Hawaii. The world knows them as the most daring deep-sea voyagers and explorers of all time.
In the fair and friendly islands upon which they came, they and their descendants built a civilization,; waged wars, mad peace, loved an lived.
Some nights, when the moonlight cascades in silver rivulets through the rustling palms on some Hawaiian shore, you may hear the ancient chants recalling the legends of mighty Hawaiiloa, famous fisherman and navigator.
You will hear, too, of the warrior king Kame-hameha the Great, first to rule all the islands . .. of Captain Cook, who brought the first contact whom the natives at first worshipped" as the reincarnation of the god Lono ... of Pele, goddess of Kil-auea volcano.
Missionaries came; idol worship and the tabu system vanished. Kings and Chiefs grew rich on the sandalwood trade with China. Whalers and China Clippers dropped anchor in Hawaiian ports to replenish their supplies or to bargain for rich cargoes so easily obtainable.
Gradually, the world learned to respect the independence of these proud, progressive people in their island kingdom. Political fortunes waxed and waned until 1891, when Queen Liliuokalani began her brief and troubled reign.
From that year until August 12,1898, when the Stars and Stripes first fluttered from the executive building in Honolulu, Hawaii was (successively) a monarchy, a protectorate, a republic and, finally, a Territory of the United States.
In all ways, Hawaii’s recent progress has been phenomenal. Population now tops 465,000; Honolulu alone numbers 200,000.
More than a century ago,
Hawaiians began to manufacture raw sugar from their cane fields; today this is Hawaii’s largest and most important industry. Second in importance and equally as old is the pineapple industry; more of this golden fruit is shipped from Hawaii than from any other part of the world.
When the first Pan American World Airways Clipper landed in Hawaii in November, 1935, the final link in swift and dependable air service B. Today, by Clipper, it is less than half a day’s travel time to or from the Islands. Time an d d is ta nee have shrunk.
Hawaii’s role in the last war was outstanding. Aside from Piearl Harbor, the enemy fortunately left no scars on the beauty of these lovely islands—now again ready to welcome you.
POSTMASTER: Return Postage Guaranteed