POSTMASTER: Return Postage Guaranteed
YOU CAN VO IT, TOO!
You're no millionaire. You’re Jed Crane, currently bogged down with a biology bluebook, but speculating on your chances of climbing an Alp this summer. Or, you’re Mary Prentiss, teaching your 242nd class in Ancient History while dreaming of a night in Paris.
Maybe you’re "the best secretary Mr. Dodge ever had” and determined to do something spectacular with your vacation—in case you don’t get married before next summer. Or, you’re a young married couple who would like to take that European trip now—instead of when you’re fifty.
Whoever you are, the wanderlust has struck.
BIG IDEAS-SMALL BUDGET
We weren’t millionaires, either. But we had big ideas about a trip to Europe. So-o-o, we bought ourselves a pair of bikes, and rounded up a flock of visas.*
Our strategy was—to live inexpensively in Europe. Could be done, we knew, by steering clear of big tourist hotels and restaurants. This way we would see more of Europe and Europeans than of other American tourists. We planned to put up at youth hostels or small inns, and do some biking and take an occasional bus. Our expedition would be anything
but touristing in the	-	^

Grand Manner.
*Visas now required only for Ireland and Portugal. Military Permit for Germany.
in
SEEING THE SEA?... OR EUROPE?
Number One Problem: Getting across the Atlantic. A banana boat might be fraught with poetry, but it would mean spending three weeks or more on the high seas. The question was: A vacation on the Atlantic Ocean? Or a vacation in Europe?
What’s three weeks? Well, it might be the difference between spending one day in Paris—or a week in Paris, plus another week exploring the small villages and wine caves of Burgundy, plus another week of coasting leisurely along the Riviera and shores of the blue Mediterranean.
This might be our only trip to Europe . . . We decided to fly.
You really can’t beat -flying. Now you can even go over on Pan Am’s "double-decked”
Clippers. Imagine, "upstairs” and "downstairs” on a ’plane!
TWO WINGS AND TWO WHEELS
Friends were amazed when we said, "By bike and by Clipper.. Yup, you put two wings and two bikes together, and they add up to a first rate ’middle class’ vacation. Wait and see."
When we wheeled our bikes onto La Guardia Field, the Clipper did seem a slightly "classy” traveling companion for a bike, but now we know that bikes and Clippers were made for each other. In the end, we not only flew the Atlantic, but between several European countries as well. We saved a month of precious time and saw nine countries instead of five. Portugal, Ireland, and Scotland would have been too far afield without the Flying Clipper.
"The saddest words in prose or rhyme
"Are those wistful four—
" 'We didn’t have time’ . .
WE'LL TARE THE HIGHWAY-AND THE BYWAY
We think we tried every conceivable means of transportation— donkey carts, buses, trains, jeeps, bikes, and Clippers. All of them got us somewhere—each in its own way. But only two were really relaxing—the bikes and the Clippers, one for leisure, one for speed.
It’s hard to beat peddling through a quiet countryside. And every time we boarded a Clipper to make time between points of interest, we were floating through the air with the greatest of ease and comfort. Although continental trains have a fascination of their own, an all-day trip on one is often like a jaunt on a roller-coaster through a coal mine.
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
IT'S THE PRINCIPLE, NOT THE BICYCLE
Maybe you've never ridden a bike. Don’t give up the ship. Cycling’s not the only way to have a leisurely holiday. Our friends report enthusiastically on hiking and "bus-ing”, too.
The point is that the inexpensive ways to travel are the most fun! Here’s a story to prove it. A business executive was on a swift continental tour—two days in London, two in Brussels, two in Paris, and two in Rome. He told us, "Traveling as I do, all countries look alike to me.”
The countries of Europe are not alike. They are fascinatingly different. You don’t have to ride a bicycle to find this out. But you do have to allow yourself time to ramble from village to village.