Rio de Janeiro
12TH DAY. TUESDAY:
BUENOS AIRES.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day at leisure.
Your tour will take you to all the main points of interest in this cosmopolitan, bustling, elegant city. You will see the Government House, Colon Theatre, Recoleta Cemetery and 9th of July Avenue.
13TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: BUENOS AIRES.
Full day free.
Calle Florida is one of the world’s smartest shopping streets, where you’re sure to want to spice up your own wardrobe a bit. Everything made of leather is an excellent buy for quality. Another good buy is art work.
14TH DAY. THURSDAY:
BUENOS AIRES.
Free day.
There are several interesting excursions you can make on your own and your host is ready to help. An all day tour to watch the gauchos bring cattle to market is a fascinating experience. The gauchos in their colorful dress are really doing a day’s work and not acting for the tourist.
15TH DAY. FRIDAY:
BUENOS AIRES/ASUNCIÓN. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Asunción. On arrival transfer to your hotel.
The charming capital of Paraguay awaits your arrival. Be prepared to step back a few years upon landing in Asunción. This seldom seen country enjoys a relaxed and unhurried life rarely found in today’s world.
16TH DAY. SATURDAY: ASUNCIÓN.
Sightseeing tour of Asunción and Maka Indian Village. Remainder of day free.
A morning sightseeing tour takes you to Caballero Park, the National Pantheon of Heroes and the cathedral. Then you will visit the Maka Indian reservation on an island in the Parana River.
17TH DAY. SUNDAY: ASUNCIÓN/IGUASSU FALLS. Transfer to the airport for your flight to Iguassu Falls. Transfer to hotel on arrival.
If you’ve seen Niagara Falls, then be prepared for a surprise, since it doesn’t come close to Iguassu Falls! Iguassu Falls is actually a series of falls some two and a half miles long set in the lush jungle vegetation on the border of Argentina and Brazil. Spectacular is the only word for this natural wonder. From the
Argentine side there are catwalks that take you out over the various little islands that break up the Falls. From the Brazilian side you can take a helicopter ride or boat ride on the river above the Falls.
18TH DAY. MONDAY:
IGUASSU FALLS/RIO.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Rio. Transfer to your hotel on arrival.
Deus é Brasileiro! goes an old Brazilian saying: “God is a Brazilian.” If this is true (ignoring theological arguments for the moment), then heaven has got to be in Rio. No city is blessed with more natural beauty. And nowhere do people enjoy their blessings as much as in Rio!
19TH DAY. TUESDAY:
RIO DE JANEIRO.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day at leisure.
You’ll ascend to Corcovado Mountain, location of Rio’s landmark, the 125 foot statue of Christ the Redeemer. After enjoying the exceptional view you’ll proceed through Tijuca Rain Forest to Taunay Waterfall. Your return will be via the scenic route along Niemeyer palisades.
In the afternoon take a look at Copa-cabana and Ipanema beaches and you’ll see why the Cariocas (Rio’s people) love to play.
20TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
RIO DE JANEIRO.
Free day.
If shopping is your sport, then Rio is the place for you. From Avenida Copa-cabana with its smart boutiques to Rua do Ouvidor you’ll find good buys in clothes, jewelry and souvenirs. Rio sets the style in beachwear—get your bikinis here!
21ST DAY. THURSDAY:
RIO DE JANEIRO.
Free day.
Looking for things to do? Your host can arrange a tour to Petropolis, a popular resort with people from Rio. Located at 2,800 feet above sea level, Petropolis has been the summer “escape” from the heat of Rio for the upper classes. The scenery on the ride to Petropolis as well as the old colonial buildings make it a worthwhile trip.
22ND DAY. FRIDAY:
RIO DE JANEERO/USA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight home.
23RD DAY. SATURDAY:
USA.
Arrive back in USA.
12