BARILOCHE
Tres Reyes: Moderate Swiss Chateau-type hotel on a lakeside in the center of town. All rooms with central heating, private bath and phone. Facilities include restaurant and bar.
BOGOTA
Tequendama InterContinental: Superior Modern, 800 room hotel located 10 minutes from city center. 3 restaurants, one with 24 hours service, cocktail lounge, evening entertainment.
BUENOS AIRES
Continental: Moderate Recently renovated 200 room hotel located near shopping and financial district of the city. All rooms have air-conditioning, television, music channels and refrigerators. Facilities include restaurant and bar.
Plaza Hotel: Superior Distinguished, traditional 350 room hotel centrally located overlooking San Martin Park on Florida. All rooms with private bath, phone and air-conditioning. Facilities include restaurant, coffee shop, cocktail lounge and roof garden.
CARACAS
Macuto-Sheraton: Superior Coixiplete resort with its own beach, marina, bowling lanes, 2 tennis courts, movie theatre and nightclub (during winter season). A golf course is nearby. 541 air-conditioned rooms with private bath facing either the mountain or the ocean, 2 swimming pools, coffee shop, restaurants, supper club, ballroom and cocktail lounges are also available.
Melia Caribe: Superior This beautiful new 350 room hotel opened in the spring of 1977. Rooms are decorated in modern decor and have wall-to-wall carpeting, air-conditioning and telephone. Facilities include beach, swimming pool, restaurant, coffee shop and 2 bars.
Pan Am’s World Tours offer a wide range of hotel categories:
Superior : Superior first class or deluxe hotels. Hotels chosen for their excellent accommodations, amenities and ambience.
Moderate: Medium first class hotels. Hotels selected for their range of amenities, pleasant accommodations, location and standard of service.
Quality : Superior tourist or first class hotels. Hotels offering simple but comfortable accommodations and good value.
Since hotel accommodations form a major part of the land price, your decision may be affected by the type of hotel, its location and features within each of the price ranges. To simplify your decision, we have listed the hotels used by city (in alphabetical order). The descriptions of the hotels have been kept simple and objective; the purpose is to indicate location, main features, and other items which would be of interest to you.
Categories are those rated by our own Quality Control rating system. Thus they may differ somewhat from designations in many hotel guides which frequently vary among themselves.
Tequendama InterContinental, Bogotá
ASUNCION
Ita Enramada: Superior 150 room resort hotel set in 14 acres of landscaped grounds on the banks of the Paraguay River, 3 miles from downtown.
Facilities include 2 restaurants, 5 bars, nightclub, snack bar, casino, swimming pool, sauna, Turkish bath, tennis, minigolf and water skiing.
Macuto-Sheraton, Caracas
Tamanaco Inter •Continental: Superior 600 room hotel located on a hill overlooking the city. Features air-conditioned rooms with private bath, restaurants, 3 lounges, bars, supper club, swimming pool, tennis courts and shops.
Tamanaco InterContinental, Caracas
CUZCO
Savoy: Moderate Recently renovated modern hotel located a few blocks from the city center. All rooms with private bath, central heating and phone. Facilities include 2 restaurants, coffee shop and 2 bars.
Libertador Marriott: Superior The Casa de los Cuatro Bustos, home of Pizarro’s brother, is incorporated into this 131 room hotel. Located in the center of the city, all rooms are decorated in Spanish colonial design and have air-conditioning, central heating, wall-to-wall carpeting and phone. Restaurant, coffee shop, cocktail lounge and gift shop are also available.
Hotels
2