Sheraton San Cristobai, Santiago
RIO DE JANEIRO
Nacional-Rio: Superior 520 room hotel facing Gavea Beach. All air-conditioned rooms have private bath, phone, TV and radio. Facilities include restaurant, bar, nightclub, swimming pool, sauna and shopping arcade.
Rio InterContinental: Superior New modern resort-type hotel on Gavea Beach, 6 miles from Copacabana. 500 air-conditioned rooms with private bath, TV. Beach, swimming pool, lighted tennis courts. Located adjacent to Gavea Golf Course. Bars, snack bar, restaurants, saunas, shops.
Rio Sheraton: Superior Modern resort-type hotel on Vidigal Beach, 5 miles from Copacabana. All rooms are air-conditioned with private bath and phone.
Beach, 2 swimming pools and tennis courts. Restaurant, coffee shop, nightclub, 4 cocktail lounges and health club.
Rio InterContinental
SANTIAGO
Sheraton San Cristobal: Superior 350 room hotel situated in residential area 10 minutes from the city center. Rooms offer private bath, air-conditioning, radio and television. Roof-top restaurant, cocktail lounge, swimming pool, and tennis courts.
SAO PAULO
Hilton: Superior 416 room, 35 story tower, located in the center of the city. All rooms have air-conditioning, telephone, radio. Hotel offers supper club, cocktail lounge, grill room, coffee shop.
Nacional-Rio, Rio de Janeiro
MARGARITA ISLAND Concorde Hotel: Superior New 500 room hotel opened 1978. All rooms have air-conditioning, phone and TV. Facilities include 4 restaurants, 3 cocktail lounges, nightclub and 3 pools.
PEULLA
Hotel Peulla: Quality Small hotel near the Argentine border. Restaurant and bar are available.
PUERTO MONTT Vincent Perez Rosales Hotel: Quality Rustic hotel near center of town and shopping area. Facilities include dining room and bar.
IGUASSU FALLS
Hotel das Cataratas: Moderate Situated at the edge of the Falls this hotel offers most rooms with bath. Tennis courts and swimming pool; restaurant and bar.
Hotel Intemacional: Moderate New 177 room hotel opened 1978, located on Argentine side of the Falls. Facilities include restaurant, coffee shop, swimming pool and discotheque.
LIMA
Riviera Hotel: Moderate 185 rooms situated in downtown Lima. All rooms air-conditioned with telephone and radio. The hotel offers a cocktail lounge, bar, and roof garden.
Crillon Hotel: Superior 513 room hotel located in central downtown area. All rooms feature private bath, heating and air-conditioning, telephones, restaurants, bar and sun deck.
SALVADOR (BAHIA)
Meridien: Superior 502 air-conditioned rooms located 4 miles from downtown. Decorated in modern-style all rooms have wall-to-wall carpeting, TV, radio and refrigerator. Restaurant, bar, nightclub,
2 pools and tennis courts.
Sao Paulo Hilton