South American Adventure 0
17 days	from 5
Venezuela	• Peru • /
Caracas	3 Nights
Lima	3 Nights
Cuzco	2 Nights
Buenos Aires	3 Nights
Iguassu Falls	1 Night
Rio de Janeiro	3 Nights
TOUR FEATURES
Brazil
and flower-filled patio; Casa Natal where Simon Bolivar was born; the Colonial Art Museum at the Quinta de Anauco, a beautiful old Spanish estate; the National Pantheon; and the magnificent gardens of the Grand Officer’s Club. This evening sample the excellent Venezuelan cuisine when you dine at a local restaurant.
1911 by Hiram Bingham, Machu Picchu consists of over 200 buildings, a self-contained city, virtually inaccessible and unnoticeable from the valley below.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY: CUZCO/LIMA.
Transfer to the airport for an early flight to Lima. Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Remainder of day free.
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	All meals in Cuzco.
•	Dinner at a local restaurant in Caracas, Lima, Buenos Aires, and Rio de Janeiro.
•	Lunch in Machu Picchu.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour of Caracas, Lima, Cuzco, Buenos Aires and
Rio de Janeiro.
•	Full day excursion to Machu Picchu.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Services of a Pan Am’s World tour escort during the entire tour.
•	Welcome cocktail party in Caracas.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
J
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/CARACAS.
Depart by Pan Am Jet Clipper for Caracas. Assistance on arrival, transfer to hotel. Welcome cocktail party.
“An earthly paradise” exclaimed Christopher Columbus when he discovered Venezuela in 1498. The country has tropical islands, cascading waterfalls, mountains, jungles, exotic flowers and nearly 2,000 miles of beautiful coastline. This evening enjoy a welcome cocktail party hosted by your tour escort.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
CARACAS.
Morning sightseeing tour. Afternoon free. Dinner at a local restaurant.
Caracas in recent years has been transformed from an old colonial city into one of the most contemporary capitals in Latin America. This morning you will see the gleaming white Capitol with its gold dome
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
CARACAS.
Day at leisure.
Relax by the hotel pool or place a bet at La Rinconada, one of the world’s most spectacular race tracks.
4TH DAY. MONDAY: CARACAS/LIMA.
Transfer to the airport for flight to Lima. Transfer to hotel on arrival.
Lima, City of Kings, founded in 1535 by Francisco Pizarro, was once a colonial capital of the Spanish Empire. The historical significance of the city is apparent but Lima is now a modern city.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY:
LIMA.
Morning sightseeing tour. Afternoon free. Dinner at a local restaurant.
You’ll visit both colonial Lima and the city’s modern residential suburbs. Your first visit will be to the cathedral where you can see the remains of the conqueror Pizarro, then on to the Court of the Inquisition and the Colonial Palace of Torre Tagle. After seeing colonial Lima your drive takes you through residential districts to the Olive Grove and the country club of San Isidro.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY: LIMA/CUZCO.
Transfer to the airport for an early flight to Cuzco. Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Afternoon sightseeing tour. Lunch and dinner at hotel.
Capital of the Incan Empire, Cuzco is located at 11,400 feet. Most visitors like to rest a short time to become adjusted to the altitude and avoid any discomfort.
7TH DAY. THURSDAY:
CUZCO.
Full day excursion to Machu Picchu including lunch. Dinner at hotel.
Machu Picchu, one of the wonders of the world and if you don’t believe it, wait till you get there! Discovered in
Between the Plaza de Armas and Plaza San Martin, you’ll find many shops along liron de la Union. Best buys are fluffy alpaca hats, slippers and stoles in their natural colors; and beautiful rugs and wall coverings in brilliant colors.
9TH DAY. SATURDAY: LIMA/BUENOS AIRES.
Transfer to airport for flight to Buenos Aires. Transfer on arrival to hotel.
Buenos Aires is called “the Paris of South America” and is the second largest city in the Western Hemisphere as well as the most important port after New York. B.A. is a city of beautiful parks, a pink Presidential Palace and a fascinating dockside area called La Bocca, birthplace of the Tango.
10TH DAY. SUNDAY:
BUENOS AIRES.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day free.
Your tour will take you to all the main points of interest in this cosmopolitan, bustling, elegant city. See the Government House, Colon Theatre, Recoleta Cemetery and 9th of July Avenue.
11TH DAY. MONDAY:
BUENOS AIRES.
Day at leisure. Dinner at a local restaurant in the evening.
Calle Florida is one of the world’s smartest shopping streets, where you’re sure to want to spice-up your own wardrobe a bit. Everything made of leather is an excellent buy for quality. Another good buy is art work. This evening you can sample one of those famous Argentine beef steaks at dinner.
12TH DAY. TUESDAY:
BUENOS AIRES/IGUASSU FALLS. Transfer to airport for flight to Iguassu Falls. On arrival transfer to hotel.
Spectacular is the only word for this natural wonder. Set in the lush jungle vegetation on the border of Argentina and Brazil, Iguassu Falls is actually a series of falls some two and a half miles long and higher than Niagara.
16