AVENSA AIRLINES

One of the world’s biggest travel bargains
The more you see of Venezuela, the more you save when you take advantage of AVENSA AIRLINES $175 Sky Buy Plan.
You can use Caracas as home base and take excursions to see the many exciting faces of Venezuela. One day trips to a host of unique places can get you back to Caracas in time for a night on the town.
Visit exotic places like:
CAN AIM A, in the heart of the Venezuelan jungle. See Angel Falls (weather permitting). Then, spend some time at AVENSA’s comfortable, rustic camp, go swimming or boating, or enjoy the idyllic unspoiled tranquility.
MERIDA, a picturesque town high in the Andes where you can ride the world’s highest cable car, fish for trout and enjoy cool mountain landscapes.
MARGARITA ISLAND, a barefoot tropical paradise famous for pearls, oysters, miles of unspoiled beaches and free port shopping.
CORO, a quiet corner of Venezuela’s colonial past jam-packed with architectural treasures dating from the 1500’s.
With your SKY BUY ticket, you can travel throughout the country for 17 days and SAVE MORE THAN 100% OVER NORMAL AIR FARES. SKY BUY is a supplement to your international ticket. It must be purchased outside Venezuela and reservations, if desired prior to departure may be confirmed through your travel agent or Pan Am who issues a Miscellaneous Charges Order. Exchange your SKY BUY ticket for an Identity Card at any AVENSA office in Caracas, Maiquetia (Caracas Airport), Maracaibo or Por Lamar. In exchange you will receive an IDENTITY CARD valid for 17 days from the date you start making use of the Plan. With your IDENTITY CARD you can walk into any AVENSA office in Venezuela and pick up, without
charge, the required tickets to travel for ANY AVENSA ROUTE, as many times as you wish, during the 17 DAYS validity of your card. Validity begins the date you travel allowing you to stay in Caracas as long as you like without sacrificing valuable Sky Buy traveling days.
NOTE: Special rates for children.
There is an additional charge for baggage and local transportation tax.
Advance Reservations available through Pan Am’s Free Sale facility. See Avensa’s Sky Buy folder for details. Contact your Travel Agent, Pan Am or Avensa (U.S. Headquarters —1 Rockefeller Plaza, Suite 1424, N.Y., N.Y. 10020 Phone 212/582-3950 or your local Avensa office).
Ì
Canaima/Angel Falls Excursions
One of the most exciting excursions of
Angel Falls
your lifetime
Get away for a day — or longer — to this beautiful unspoiled natural paradise deep in the heart of Venezuela’s Gran Sabana, a sprawling national park full of towering pink mesas, cascading waterfalls and exotic vegetation. 125 miles away from the nearest town and accessible only by air, AVENSA’s camp on the canyon floor, hidden from view by jungle flora and fauna, is an unusual hotel which has been built in harmony with the ecology of the area. This is the region which inspired Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s “Lost World,” W. H. Hudson’s “Green Mansions” and Walt Disney’s “Fantasia”.
One Day Excursion includes: Roundtrip air fare; Flight sightseeing with a view of spectacular Angel Falls, world’s highest waterfall (weather permitting), one of the world’s most breathtakingly beautiful sights; A typical lunch at the AVENSA CAMP beside the Canaima Lagoon, buffet style (hosted by local Indians); A dugout canoe ride through a jungle lagoon to the Seven Waterfalls of Salto Hacha; And an optional tour of the facilities. All groups are accompanied by AVENSA’s specially trained guides.
Price: $132.55
You might want to stay longer and use AVENSA’s comfortable, rustic camp as a base for taking guided trips deeper into the jungle or to enjoy the soothing tranquility of this lovely setting.
Two Days/One Night Excursion includes: Roundtrip air fare; Breakfast, lunch and sightseeing features of the One Day Excursion; One night’s lodging including all meals.
Price: $170.95
Three Days/Two Nights Excursion includes: Roundtrip air fare; Breakfast, lunch and sightseeing features of the One Day Excursion; Two night’s lodging including all meals.
Price: $210.50
NOTE: Special rates for children.
There is an additional charge for baggage and local transportation tax.
Advance Reservations available through Pan Am’s Free Sale facility. See Avensa’s folder for details. Contact your Travel Agent, Pan Am or Avensa (U.S. Headquarters — 1 Rockefeller Plaza, Suite 1424, N.Y., N.Y. 10020 Phone 212/582-3950 or your local Avensa office).
13