Grand Explorer ^
23 days from $783 plus air fare
Venezuela • Colombia • Peru • Argentina Paraguay • Brazil
Caracas	2 Nights
Bogotá	2 Nights
Lima	4 Nights
Cuzco	2 Nights
Buenos Aires	4 Nights
Asunción	2 Nights
Iguassu Falls	1 Night
Rio de Janeiro	4 Nights

TOUR FEATURES
\
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Brazilian breakfast in Rio de Janeiro.
•	Lunch in Machu Picchu.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour of Caracas, Bogotá, Lima, Cuzco, Buenos Aires, Asunción and Rio de Janiero.
•	Full day excursion to Machu Picchu.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Assistance of Pan Am’s World Representative in each city.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features. (See Inside Front Cover).

J
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/CARACAS.
Depart by Pan Am Jet Clipper for Caracas. Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel. Remainder of day at leisure.
Caracas, in recent years, has been transformed from an old colonial city into one of the most contemporary capitals in Latin America. For a glimpse of the colonial buildings that remain, visit the 18th-century Colonial Art Museum. Then stroll through the historic El Silencio— once a slum and now literally erased and rebuilt—to Plaza Bolivar. Near here is the Casa Natal, birthplace of Bolivar.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY: CARACAS.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day free.
You’ll see the gleaming white Capitol with its gold dome and flower-filled patio;
Casa Natal, where Simon Bolivar was born; the Colonial Art Museum at the Quinta de Anauco, a beautiful old Spanish estate; the National Pantheon; and the magnificent gardens of the Grand Officer’s Club.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY: CARACAS/BOGOTÁ.
Transfer to airport for your flight to Bogotá. Transfer to hotel on arrival.
Colombia is the country that lured conquering Spaniards inland from the shore in search of El Dorado—the gilded city of endless gold. One look at the golden sun on the emerald coast of Colombia, and you’ll see why they were so sure this glittering country had to contain the city of riches. There is treasure here, even to this day; some of the world’s finest emerald markets offer deep, glowing stones at a savings.
4TH DAY. MONDAY:
BOGOTÁ.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day at leisure.
Today you’ll have a look at Bogotá; the business district, the Capitol and cathedral at Plaza Bolivar. Stops will be made at the Gold Museum where the world’s largest collection of pre-Colombian gold artifacts are housed and then on to the home and gardens of Simon Bolivar.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY: BOGOTÁ/LIMA.
Transfer to the airport for your flight to Lima. Assistance on arrival and transfer to your hotel.
Lima, City of Kings, founded in 1535 by Francisco Pizarro, was once a colonial capital of the Spanish Empire. The historical significance of the city is apparent but Lima is now a modern 20th-century city.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
LIMA.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of day free.
You’ll visit both colonial Lima and the city’s modern residential suburbs. Your first visit will be to the cathedral where you can see the remains of the conqueror Pizarro, then on to the Court of the Inquisition and the Colonial Palace of Torre Tagle. After seeing colonial Lima your drive takes you through residential districts to the Olive Grove and the country club of San Isidro.
7TH DAY. THURSDAY: LIMA/CUZCO.
Transfer to the airport for early morning flight to Cuzco. Transfer on arrival of hotel. Afternoon sightseeing tour to Cuzco.
Capital of the Incan Empire, Cuzco is located at 11,400 feet. Most visitors like to rest a short time to become adjusted to the altitude and avoid any discomfort. As your tour takes you through Cuzco, note that many of the structures are built on old Indian foundations with no mortar and each stone almost perfectly matched with its neighbors.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY:
CUZCO.
Full day excursion to Machu Picchu including lunch.
The “Lost City of the Incas” (at an altitude of 8,000 feet) is probably the most awe-inspiring sight in South Amer-
10