Conocedor 0
23 days from $1376 plus air fare
Peru • Chile • Argentina • Brazil
Lima	2 Nights
Cuzco	2 Nights
Santiago	2 Nights
Peulla	1 Night
Bariloche	2 Nights
Buenos Aires	3 Nights
Iguassu Falls	1 Night
Sao Paulo	1 Night
Salvador (Bahia)	3 Nights
Rio de Janeiro	3 Nights
f	....... \
TOUR FEATURES
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Continental breakfast daily.
•	Dinner at a local restaurant in Lima, Santiago, Buenos Aires and
Rio de Janeiro.
•	Lunch in Machu Picchu.
•	All meals on three day Chilian/ Argentine Lake Region tour.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour of Lima, Cuzco, Santiago, Bariloche, Buenos Aires, Sao Paulo, Salvador and
Rio de Janeiro.
•	Full day excursion to Machu Picchu.
•	Transportation by coach and boat from Puerto Montt to Bariloche.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Services of a Pan Am’s World tour escort during the entire tour.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
1ST DAY. FRIDAY:
USA/LIMA.
Depart on your flight to Lima.
Lima, City of Kings, founded in 1535 by Francisco Pizarro, was once a colonial capital of the Spanish Empire. The historical significance of the city is apparent but Lima is now a modern 20th-century city.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY:
LIMA.
Assistance on arrival. Transfer to your hotel. Afternoon sightseeing tour. Welcome cocktail party.
This afternoon you’ll visit both colonial Lima and the city’s modern residential suburbs. Your first visit will be to the cathedral where you can see the remains of the conqueror Pizarro, then on to the Court of the Inquisition and the Colonial Palace of Torre Tagle. After seeing colonial Lima your drive takes you through residential districts to the Olive Grove and the country club of San Isidro. This evening get acquainted with your fellow tour members over cocktails.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY: LIMA/CUZCO.
Transfer to the airport for early morning flight to Cuzco. Transfer on arrival to hotel. Afternoon sightseeing tour of Cuzco.
Capital of the Incan Empire, Cuzco is located at 11,400 feet. It is advisable for visitors to rest a short time in order to become adjusted to the altitude and avoid any discomfort.
As your tour takes you through Cuzco, note that many of the structures are built on old Indian foundations with no mortar and each stone almost perfectly matches with its neighbors.
4TH DAY. MONDAY: CUZCO/MACHU PICCHU.
Full day excursion to Machu Picchu including lunch.
Machu Picchu, one of the wonders of the world and if you don’t believe it, wait till you get there! Discovered in 1911 by Hiram Bingham, Machu Picchu consists of over 200 buildings, a self-contained city, virtually inaccessible and unnotice-able from the valley below.
5TH DAY. TUESDAY: CUZCO/LIMA.
Transfer to the airport for an early flight to Lima, Transfer to your hotel on arrival. Afternoon at leisure. Dinner at a local restaurant.
Between the Plaza de Armas and Plaza San Martin, you’ll find many shops along Jiron de la Union. Best buys are fluffy alpaca hats, slippers, and stoles in their natural colors; beautiful rugs and wall coverings.
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
LIMA/SANTIAGO.
Transfer to the airport for flight to Santiago. On arrival transfer to hotel. Afternoon free. Dinner at a local restaurant.
Geographic variety is the spice of life in Chile. From the Atacama Desert in the north where there is no record of rain having fallen; through the green agricultural heartland around Santiago, to the snowcapped Andes and the Chilean Lake District, this country offers a little of everything.
7TH DAY. THURSDAY: SANTIAGO.
Morning sightseeing tour. Remainder of the day free.
You’ll see the main points of interest in Santiago: the Presidential Palace, the University of Chile, Church of San Francisco, Beau Arts Museum, Plaza de Armas and stops will be made at the Club Hipico, Santa Lucia Hill, San Cristobal Hill and Providenica Market.
8TH DAY. FRIDAY: SANTIAGO/PUERTO MONTT/ PEULLA.
Transfer to airport for flight to Puerto Montt. On arrival you’ll be met and taken by motorcoach to Petrohue. Board a motorboat to cross Lake Todos los Santos to Puella. Lunch en route and dinner at the hotel.
18