Nazca Markings and Paracas — 2 Nights
1ST DAY: LIMA/NAZCA.
Morning departure for a 280 mile drive along the Peruvian coast to Nazca.
A stop will be made at the ruins of Pachacamac to visit this famous place of pilgrimage during pre-Inca times. Continue to lea for lunch and visit the fascinating Archaeological Museum.
Arrive in Nazca during mid-afternoon. You will have time to enjoy a dip in the hotel’s pool or just relax and enjoy the semi-tropical climate of the area.
2ND DAY: NAZCA/PARACAS.
Tour the incredible Nazca Markings.
Thousands of years ago people made these mysterious markings; geometrical lines, some of them four miles long, huge hummingbirds, signs that resemble a landing field. But for whom or for what ... thousands of years ago? You may decide this for yourself when you see them this morning. Take an approximate 40 minute flight by small aircraft and you can marvel at the huge signs from the air. Lunch at your hotel and in the afternoon a three hour drive to Paracas.
3RD DAY: PARACAS/LIMA.
Morning yacht cruise to see the Guano Islands or a visit to the Inca citadel of Tambo Colorado. Return to Lima after lunch.
Supplements: per person
Twin Single Triple
Moderate $178 $197 $178 Superior $170 $189 $170
Includes All Meals
Prices include credit for unused nights in Lima. (On Request)
Optional Excursions for Latin Magic
Cuzco and Machu Picchu — 2 Nights
1ST DAY: LIMA/CUZCO.
Transfer to the airport for early flight to Cuzco. Transfer on arrival to hotel. Afternoon sightseeing tour of Cuzco.
Capital of the Incan Empire, Cuzco is located at 11,400 feet. Most visitors like to rest a short time to become adjusted to the altitude and avoid any discomfort.
2ND DAY: CUZCO/MACHU PICCHU/CUZCO.
Full day tour to Machu Picchu including lunch.
Machu Picchu, one of the wonders of the world and if you don’t believe it, wait till you get there! Discovered in 1911 by Hiram Bingham, Machu Picchu consists of over 200 buildings, a self-contained city, virtually inaccessible and unnoticeable from the valley below.
3RD DAY: CUZCO/LIMA.
Transfer to airport for early morning flight back to Lima.
Supplements: per person
Twin Single Triple
Moderate	$70	$84	$70
Superior	$76	$97	$76
Additional Air Fare: $75.40 Prices include credit for unused nights in Lima.
(On Request)
Machu Picchu, Peru