Latin Magic <0>
16 days from $399 plus air fare
Peru • Argentina • Brazil
Lima	5 Nights
Buenos Aires 4 Nights Rio de Janeiro 5 Nights

TOUR FEATURES:
\
ACCOMMODATIONS:
•	Hotel accommodations with private bath or shower. Hotel service charges and taxes are included.
MEALS:
•	Brazilian breakfast in Rio de Janeiro.
TRANSPORTATION & SIGHTSEEING:
•	Transfers between airports and hotels; tips to porters for baggage at airports and hotels.
•	Half-day sightseeing tour of Lima, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.
SPECIAL FEATURES:
•	Assistance of Pan Am’s World Representative in each city.
•	Pan Am’s World Bonus Features.
(See Inside Front Cover).
/
1ST DAY. FRIDAY: USA/LIMA.
Depart on your jet flight to Lima.
2ND DAY. SATURDAY: LIMA.
Transfer to hotel on arrival. Afternoon sightseeing tour.
Sunset over Sugarloaf Mountain, Rio
Early morning arrival, transfer to your hotel. This afternoon you’ll visit both colonial Lima and the city’s modern residential suburbs. Your first visit will be to the cathedral where you can see the remains of the conqueror Pizarro, then on to the Court of the Inquisition and the Colonial Palace of Torre Tagle. After seeing colonial Lima your drive takes you through residential districts to the Olive Grove and the country club of San Isidro.
3RD DAY. SUNDAY:
LIMA.
Day at leisure.
History survives in Peru! Pizarro, the Incas, the Viceroy ... you’ll feel their presence everywhere you go. In Lima’s Plaza de Armas, you’ll see the cathedral where Pizarro set the cornerstone on January 18, 1535—the day he founded the City of the Kings. And you’ll wander through the 18th-century Quinta de Presa, the estate built by Viceroy Amat for his beautiful mistress “La Perricholi.”
In the heyday of the Viceroys, Lima was one of the most splendid cities in the world. Magnificent mansions lined the streets, and silk-clad ladies stepped from carriages in slippers encrusted with gold and jewels.
Today Lima is a different city. The lovely ladies of the town now step from sports cars and wear the latest of haute couture. Instead of attending balls as “La Perricholi” must have done, you’ll find them dancing in the discotheques.
For a view of the new Lima, have dinner in the Sky Room atop the Hotel Crillon or have tea at the Gran Hotel Bolivar. Don’t miss the shops and parks in San Isidro and Miraflores either; and be sure to see the Inca gold collection at the Mujica Museum in Monterrico.
4TH AND 5TH DAYS.
LIMA.
Two free days.
Two full days to explore Lima on your own. If there’s a bit of the old explorer in
you, take a day’s excursion to the Lurin Valley just 20 miles south of Lima. Here you will find the ruins of a sacred city dating from nearly 900 years B.C.... Pachacamac, with its Temple of the Sun and Temple of the Virgins (or take our optional side trips to Cuzco and Machu Picchu or Nazca Markings, details on Page 7).
6TH DAY. WEDNESDAY:
LIMA.
Full day free.
Reward yourself for clever shopping with dinner at Las Trece Monedas, an old-world restaurant hidden from the street by wooden doors. Although Peruvians like their food very hot, you can say “no muy picante, por favor,” to the waiter. This is the equivalent of “hold the pepper, please,” which will let you savor the delicious dishes in comfort.
(continued on next page)
5