. . THIS FLYING BY CLIPPER . . .
Tt’s so pleasant and relaxing . . . your Clipper trip -*■ to France. Congenial companions in Mardi Gras mood, only pleasure ahead and the world at your feet. Cabin attendants at your beck and call . . . liqueurs and liquors to your liking . . . and delicious meals prepared by Maxim’s of Paris, more taste-tempting than ever when served high in the sky. You’ll find all this on Pan Am’s President (First Class) flights to Paris . . . and all without extra charge.
And on the extra-fare President Special, your cloud-soft chair, marvelous feature of Pan Am’s exclusive Sleeperette Service, will recline to cradle you at night, or at slight extra charge you may choose an over-size berth. And voila! No matter what Clipper service you select . . . regular, extra fare, or the extra low fare Rainbow, Pan Am’s wonderful Clipper Tourist service . . . you’re in Paris so soon. In hours. Which means you’ll have time for a much longer stay in France and on the Continent.
Copyright 1954, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Clipper and Sleeperette Trade-Marks, Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
3 GOOD REASONS FOR SEEING FRANCE THIS YEAR
1.	YOUR CHOICE OF PAN AM SERVICE
The President—Luxurious travel without extra fare. Includes a smart overnight case as souvenir. Sleeperette Service on many flights. Berths available at extra cost. The President Special—Non-stop, extra-fare service between New York, London and Paris — the most luxurious in the world. “Strato” Clippers, with lower deck lounges, seven-course champagne dinners . . . personalized engraved baggage tags . . . orchids and perfume for the ladies . . . choice of Sleeperette Service, or, at extra cost, a full-length berth . . . limited passenger list and extra attendants. President Stateroom Service — on all “Strato” Clipper transatlantic flights. The privacy of a real stateroom aloft . . . meal service at your convenience . . . and all the preferential treatment that goes with such an extra-charge service. The Rainbow — Clipper Tourist service which brings international travel within reach of the average budget. Delicious meals served at no extra cost.
2.	CHOICE OF ROUTINGS WHEN YOU GO PAN AM.
By Pan Am you can go to Paris directly, or via London. Or if you cross the Atlantic on Pan Am’s Southern route, your path will be to Lisbon to Rome and thence to Paris. Of course, on all Pan Am routes to and in Europe, stopovers can be arranged at no extra cost.
3.	MONEY-SAVING TOURS . . . AND THRIFT SEASON.
Throughout the year you’ll always find a wide variety of low cost tours and cost-inclusive Pan Am Holidays available. And during Thrift Season (November thru March) save up to 1 /3 on either tours or regular fares. -
ASK ABOUT PAN AM’S PAY LATER PLAN