Castle Neuschwanstein was built of marble (1869-86) by King Ludwig II in Bavaria near the Austrian border. It overlooks beautiful Lake Alpsee.
This old walled city of Rothenburg on the Tauber River makes a story-tale picture from the Middle Ages.
has managed by almost superhuman effort to become an important industrial and cultural metropolis again. A variety of stage offerings, the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, and life along Kurfuerstendamm, the Berlin equivalent of Broadway, help make the city gay and interesting. Among the night clubs are Old Fashioned Bar, Ali-Bar, Ciro-Bar, Remde’s, St. Pauli, Resi with the original “dancing waters.” Although none of the large museums survived the war, you can enjoy paintings and sculptures in the Museum in Dahlem and in many small galleries. Other places of interest: Charlottenburg Castle exhibitions; the new American Memorial Library, largest lending library in Europe; the Waldbuehne Forst Arena, open air theater and the new Congress Hall of unique modern design. The Berlin International Festival Weeks, usually in September; the Berlin International Film Festival, usually in June; a German Industries Exposition in the fall; the “Green Week” with an agricultural show, farmers’ rally, and social and art events; and a number of important international sports events attract huge crowds from other countries. There are a number of luxury and good first- and second-class hotels, the best being: Kempinski Hotel, built in 1952; the Bristol, Hotel am Zoo, Hotel Steinplatz, Savoy Hotel, Hotel Tusculum, Hotel Roxy, Hotel Stephanie, Hotel Windsor and Park Hotel. Check on the availability of the Berlin Hilton. Restaurants with excellent cuisine are Ritz, A ben, Schlichter and Kopenhagen.
Mainz (Mayence) and Wiesbaden are only a few miles southwest of Frankfurt; 2,000-year-old “Golden Mainz,” where Johann Gutenberg invented movable type and thereby became the father of modern printing, is now the center of the German wine trade. This is also where most Rhine River boat trips start and end. Wiesbaden, capital of Hesse and a famous health resort, contains most of the art treasures of the former state museums of Berlin. The Hotel Nassauer Hof here is excellent. Fifty miles south of Frankfurt is Heidelberg, alma mater of many Americans, city of the Student Prince, and the famous Heidelberg Castle; and Mannheim, Europe’s second largest inland