Westphalian Land characterized by brooks for trout fishing, climatic health resorts, winter sports centers, stalactite caves, castle ruins, and picturesque mountain towns. In the south are the Sauer, Sieg and Wittgenstein districts.
Eastern Bavaria . . . Two more recently discovered German tourist attractions are the Bavarian Forest (Bayrischer Wald) and Upper Palatinate Forest (Oberpfaelzer Wald), large wooded ranges interspersed with mountains, stretching along the southeastern border of the country. Passau, Regensburg, Weiden and Bayreuth lead to these areas. While the main characteristic of the Bavarian Forest is the vastness and magnificence of its woods, the Upper Palatinate Forest has a large number of medieval castles. Both areas have winter and summer sports facilities and climatic health resorts. Open-air plays are also performed in the region. There are, besides the cities mentioned, characteristic old Bavarian towns: Straubing, Amberg, Weiden. Abbeys and monasteries in the most beautiful Bavarian baroque and rococo are found on either side of the Danube. Romantic medieval castles stand in the valleys of the Oberpfalz, all easily reached by car.
Hohenlohe and Schwaebisch-Hall . . . Unchanged since the early Middle Ages, castles and palaces in the Hohenlohe area are plentiful and the ancient Free Imperial City of Schwaebisch-Hall (Swabian Hall) was already famous in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. On the wide stairs of the city’s cathedral a series of open-air festival plays is given every summer.
Fichtel Mountains and Luisenburg . . . Luisenburg Castle, immortalized by Goethe, is the stage every summer for guest performances of the Bavarian State Playhouse, the Luisenburg Festival Plays. In winter, guests come from all over for winter sports.
Many other places worth visiting include: Kleve, Lohengrin’s town; Nuerburgring; the Hunsrueck hills south of Trier; the various ranges of hills close to the right bank of the Rhine; Bergisches and Sauerland, Westerwald, Taunus and Vogelsberg, Odenwald, Swabian Forest and south German mountains. Farther north, the Harz Mountains rank among the most important of Germany’s winter sports territories. They also boast numerous health and other resorts, open summer and winter. All are easy to reach by railroad, bus or boat.
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged form, only one of 89 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.
0 2 t S I , /cf)