harbor, which has been restored in an astonishingly brief span of time. Not quite 40 miles farther south is Karlsruhe, on the Rhine. Its museum and collections are worth seeing. Karlsruhe is frequently used as the starting point for excursions into the Black Forest. Bruchsal Palace is nearby. Some 40 miles east is Stuttgart, capital of Baden-Wuerttemberg and of Swabia, charming metropolis among woods and vineyards, and West Germany’s largest publishing center. Southeast less than 60 miles is Ulm-on-Danube, with its famous church spire rising 528 feet. The church took 500 years to build and contains art treasures accumulated during those five centuries. Augsburg is slightly over 50 miles in the same direction—city of the Fuggers and Welsers, merchant princes whose origin dates from the Middle Ages. (The Welser family once owned Venezuela.) The Fuggers established the world’s first social settlement, the Fuggerei, a town within the city, in 1519 and restored it after the war. Augsburg is an important stopover on the “Romantic Road” which leads from Wuerzburg south via the famous medieval picture towns of Rothen-burg-on-Tauber, Dinkelsbuehl, Noerdlingen, and many others, to Fuessen in the Bavarian Alps. Augsburg is also Einstein’s birthplace.
Munich, another 40 miles, is a city of the arts, breweries and the Munich October Festival (last week of Sept, and first week of Oct.); traditional international costume parade first Sunday of the October Festival. The “Deutsches Museum” is the largest technical museum in Europe. Bayerischer Hof, Vier Jahreszeiten and Königshof are first class hotels. Night spots: Bayerischer Hof Bar, Bei Heinz, Intermezzo, Lola Montez, Platzl and Hofbräuhaus; P 1, Gisela, Der Käfig and Studio 15 in München-Schwabing. Munich is the gateway to the Bavarian and Austrian Alps with many scenic tours via the Lake District (Lake Starnberg, Lake Tegernsee, Lake Achensee and Lake Walchensee).
One hundred and twenty-five miles to the north is Nuremberg, which is becoming an important toy center again. It’s also the town of Hans Sachs and the Meistersinger, of Peter Vischer and Veit Stoss, of the world’s first pocket watch (the “Nuremberg egg”). A little over 60 miles to the northwest is Wuerzburg, where the annual Mozart Festival is held in the Residence Palace. Other cities, each with its own features of interest to the visitor include Kassel, with its health resort, Wilhelmshoehe; Braunschweig (Brunswick); Hanover, 6ne of the important fair and exposition centers and Bremen with outstanding examples of German reconstruction.
Hamburg. . . This important seaport and largest city in Western Germany dates from the time of Charlemagne. With its city built around the picturesque Alster basin, the town is located on the Elbe River. It is the center of much industry and is still the commercial artery of a wide hinterland. Besides its attraction as a great industrial and shipping center of tremendous reconstruction and development, the city offers theaters (the principal ones of which are Deutsches Schauspielhaus; Kleine Komoedie; Rendezvous; Thalia-Theater, Alster-