on the floating stage in the Rhine at Coblenz, from the end of June till the middle of September. (For others and exact dates, consult the Calendar of Events of German Tourist Information Office. See SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION.)
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS . . . You will find many of them in all major cities. See listings under cities below.
PHOTOGRAPHY . . . Black-and-white films, rolls and packs are available in all sizes;- in color films agfa and kodak. Excellent work in developing (black and white) in all cities.
RELIGION . . . There are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . You’ll find the restaurants excellent. Principal ones are listed under city descriptions below.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . . . Almost every sport is practiced in Germany. Soccer is as popular with Germans as baseball is with Americans. In almost every city there is a big stadium, such as the Olympia Stadium in Berlin and the Frankfurt Wald- (Woodland) Stadion. The famous Sports-Palace in Berlin, where ice shows, 6-day bicycle races and hockey contests take place, has been rebuilt; so has the huge Westfalen-Halle in Dortmund in the Ruhr District. Tennis courts, such as those at Bad Homburg, Berlin, Wiesbaden, and Frankfurt, present international stars; and the Avus, automobile race tracks in Berlin, as well as the Nuerburg-Ring in the Eifel Mountains, attract enthusiastic fans from all over. You can watch horse races, polo games, ice hockey, and even rugby.
SPORTS . . . Golf, tennis, swimming, soccer, skiing, athletics, skating, rowing, fencing, sailing, boxing, sport fishing, hunting.
THEATERS . . . Performances are given in all cities. In summer open-air music and drama performances are given in ancient cathedrals, monasteries and monastery ruins and medieval castles and castle ruins throughout Western Germany. In Hamburg, Deutsches Schaus-pielhaus, directed by famous actor-manager Gustaf Gruendgens; Kleine Komoedie; Rendezvous; Thalia-Theater, Alstertor.
TIME . . . Six hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING . . . There is usually 10 per cent added to restaurant bills and 15 per cent to hotel room bills. However, a small extra tip is usually given when you pay your bill either to a bartender or waiter. If tip is not included on bills, tip about the same as at home.
TOURIST TAXES . . . Only in resort places and on a moderate scale.
TRANSPORTATION . . . Modern trains, buses, taxis, and streetcars. Excellent through trains between all parts of Germany and the most important cities on the Continent. Excursion trains in scenic areas have glass domes and some have dancing and movie cars. Plane service to these places is very good, too. Car rental service, with or without driver, is available through Metro Rent-a-Car System at reasonable prices. Detailed brochures can be requested from any PAA office.