WATER . . . Excellent to drink. Sparkling and other table waters are available everywhere.
WHAT TO BUY . . . Some of the best things to buy are leather goods of all kinds, photographic articles (German cameras are among the best), optical goods, china, ceramics, jewelry, woodcarvings, cuckoo clocks, toys and watches.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . The same kind of clothes you would wear in New York City during the different seasons. No sports clothes in the theater.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Frankfurt. . . Frankfurt-on-Main, the first large city one encounters after landing at Rhein-Main airport, is the city where Goethe, creator of Faust, was born. The Goethe House and Goethe Museum are of sightseeing interest here. Emperors of the medieval German Empire were elected in magnificent Roemer Hall in Frankfurt for centuries. Frankfurt also is a West German center of commerce and finance and of international fairs and expositions.
Among the leading hotels in Frankfurt: Frankfurter Hof, Hes-sicher Hof (de luxe), Savigny Hotel. First-class hotels are: Hotel Savoy, Inselhotel, Hotel National, Hotel Monopol-Metropole. Good tourist-class hotels are: Sued Hotel, Hotel Wiesbaden. Rates are about $2 to $4 single, European Plan.
There are many museums to be visited in Frankfurt which house magnificent art collections. Among them are: the Goethe Museum, Grosser Hirschgraben 42; the Staedel Institute of Art, Schaumainkai; City Gallery, Duererstrasse; the Frankfurt Society of Art, Eschen-heimer Anlage 35; Frankfurt Cabinet of Art, Boersenstrasse; Zimmer Gallery Frank, Boehmmerstrasse 7; Gallery Buchheim-Militon; Museum Senckenberg. There’s great ballet at the Staedtische Opera, ballet groups also in the Circus Althoff-Bau in the Zoo.
Some of the best night clubs and cabarets in Frankfurt are Astoria-Bar, Huettenbar, Pilotenbar, Parisianabar, Rheinland Pavilion, Koenigin-Bar, the Ellis Elliott Bar, Tabu, Lippizaner Bar (Hotel Frankfurter Hof), Jimmy’s Bar (Hessicher Hof Hotel), Kranzler Bar. Bavarian atmosphere in the large beerhall Maier Gustl’s Oberbayern.
Principal restaurants are Grillroom Frankfurter Hof, Restaurant z.ur Alien Post, Restaurant zum Kaiserkeller, Paulaner Keller (City Betriebe) Ratskeller, Pfaelzer Weinstube, Salzhaus, Brueckenkeller, Grillroom Park Hotel, Savarin, Hey land’s Weinstube and “Hamburger Hof.”
Shops and stores are open from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (Saturdays 9:00 to 1:00). Best shopping area: Kaiserstrasse, Zeil, Haupt-wache, Goethestrasse, Schillerstrasse.
Theatres include Staedtische Buehnen, Kleines Theater im Zoo, Grosses Hans, Intimes Theater am Rossmarkt, Die Schmiere.
Berlin ... From Frankfurt, Berlin is 1% hours by Clipper. Because of Soviet visa regulations, the airplane is practically the only means for foreigners to reach the former German capital. A visit to the “Island City,” however, is a worthwhile experience. Berlin