tor), for concerts, drama, opera and operettas, also important art collections, libraries, a planetarium and observatory, sports and all kinds of entertainment including the famed amusement center of St. Pauli. Among points of sightseeing interest are the Hagenbeck Animal Park, City Hall, Chile House and other characteristic business houses, the “fleete” (canals lined with quaint old buildings), fine churches, parks and gardens.
Hamburg’s top art gallery is the Kunsthalle, Glockengiesserwall 1. A magnificent collection of North German folklore is housed in the Altona Museum, Museumstr. 21. Leading banks are Dresdener Bank, Jungfernstieg 22; Deutsche Bank, Jungfernstieg 22. Among the leading hotels in Hamburg: Atlantic Hotel, Vier Jahreszeiten (de luxe), Hotel Reichshof. First-class hotels are: Alsterhof, Hotel “Berlin.” Good tourist-class hotels are: Hotel Europaeischer Hof, Hotel Baseler Hospiz. Rates are about $3 to $5 single, European plan. Among Hamburg night clubs are the popular Montmartre-like Reeperbahn in the St. Pauli district, and in the city itself are Delhi-Palace, Tarantella, Die Insel. Leading restaurants are Vierjahreszeiten-Grill, Schue-mann’s Austernkeller, Fischereihafen-Restaurant for seafood.
A 40-minute drive up north across the Autobahn highway leads to Luebeck, famous for its many medieval monuments in typical northern brick-structure. It is the birthplace of Thomas Mann. Here one may eat the delicious Luebeck marzipan pastry.
Northern Germany boasts of many spas and shore resorts ideal for pleasure as well as health and recreation. Among the spas in the Harz mountains are Harzburg, Braunlage, Hahnenklee; on the Baltic shore elegant Travemuende, looking upon the Iron Curtain. In the North Sea are the Isle of Sylt linked to the mainland by dam and the unique rock-island of Heligoland, reachable by de-luxe boats from Hamburg or Cuxhaven.
The counterpart of the Hanseatic cities (Hamburg, Bremen, Luebeck) revival is that of the Ruhr district.
Duesseldorf. . . Also in this region you won’t want to miss Dues-seldorf, gay metropolis on the Rhine, a great business center known as the “Desk of the Ruhr.” A walk through town will show the interesting contrast between old and new architecture, most striking. The Altstadt (Old City) harbors buildings and churches dating back to the 13th century, when West-German princes made Duesseldorf their residence. The city’s main boulevard, Koenigsallee, is known continent-wide as a fashionable shopping center. Sidewalk cafés dot the pavement—their patisseries are magnificent. Fairs, exhibitions, museums, libraries, art collections, theater, Opera and concerts attract visitors the year round. During Carnival, masquerades and the Rose Monday Pageant make the city one big playground. On St. Martin’s Eve, tradition calls for thousands of children to parade through the streets carrying torches and lanterns. Duesseldorf has a number of luxury and first-class hotels, best of which are the Breidenbacher Hof and Parkhotel (de luxe), and the Atlantik, Esplanade, Eden, Fuerstenhof, Hans Miinch,