many, neither of which have soda fountains nor serve food: the Apotheke, which sell only pharmaceuticals, and the Drogerie, which sell standard drugs, cosmetics, etc.
ELECTRIC. CURRENT... There is 220 voltage A.c. generally prevailing all over Germany. The plugs are the round, European type. But most of the leading hotels will provide an adapter on request.
FAUNA . . . About the same as New York State with the exception of chipmunks, skunks, and such birds as tanagers and cardinals.
FLORA . . . About the same as in New York State.
FOOD . . . There are no food restrictions. Food is plentiful and of pre-war first-class quality. Frankfurters are called Frankfurter Wuer-stchen. Some of the specialties in German foods are: dumplings and strudels in Bavaria; Spaetzle (a special type of noodle) in Swabia and Baden; Westphalian ham; Hamburg eel soup; New Year carp in Berlin and Northern Germany; Berlin doughnuts, Berlin potato-cakes; Helgoland lobster along the seashore; St. Martin’s goose in northeast Germany; Allgau district cheese; Bodensee Felchen (Lake Constance trout), Rhine salmon; Alpine cheese and countless others.
GAMBLING . . . There are many licensed casinos in the resort spots such as: Baden-Baden, Bad Duerkheim near Ludwigshafen in the Palatinate, Bad Homburg and Wiesbaden near Frankfurt, Bad Neuenahr not far from Bonn, Lindau and Constance on Lake Constance, Westerland on the Island of Sylt, and Travemuende near Luebeck on the Baltic Sea. There are Ecarte Clubs in Kassel, a casino in Hanover near the famous Kroepke Café, and a number of small gambling clubs in Berlin. The Germany-Class Lottery and the football toto under state regulation are very popular.
LANGUAGE . . . English is understood in all the tourist centers, hotels, railroad stations and better shops.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . . . Very good everywhere.
LIQUOR . . . The Germans have famous wines (such as Rhine and Moselle and many others), Bavarian Beer, Schwarzwaelder (black forest) Kirsch (a great specialty), and Steinhaeger, a form of gin. You can also get all other kinds of liquor.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . . . Excellent and available everywhere.
MOTION PICTURES . . . The movie theaters in all larger cities in Germany show American and English films, as well as German and other foreign ones.
MUSIC . . . Almost every German city has a philharmonic orchestra; 63 of them have standing opera companies with ballet. Among the most important annual events are the Wagner Festival Plays in Bayreuth in July and August, the Bavarian State Opera Festivals in Munich at about the same time, the Berlin Festival Weeks with international opera companies, chamber orchestras and ballet companies in September, the International Opera Festival in Wiesbaden during the entire month of May, the Mozart Festival in Wuerzburg, contemporary music festivals at the Kranichstein Institute in Darmstadt and at Donaueschingen, and the popular operetta performances