Savoy (first-class). Night spots include: Palette, Etoile, Carlton, Ciro, Kolibri, Melodie, Palladium, Tabaris and the bohemian Tabu and Fatty’s Atelier.
A short stretch down the Rhine River, southward, is Cologne, whose cathedral is said to be the world’s greatest example of Gothic architecture. Cologne dates back to long before the Roman era. You will see here remains of Roman fortifications, temples, invaluable mosaics, and sculptures, which have been accumulated in the course of twenty centuries. As remarkable as the wealth of art in the city is its industrial comeback after severe bombings. International luxurious, first-class and good tourist-class hotels are again available, such as the Excelsoir Hotel Ernst, Dom-Hotel, Hotel Koelner Hof, Hotel Fuerstenhof am Dom, Touring-Hotel Bristol. (Bars: Atelier, Capri, Charlott, Tabu). Another city more than 2,000 years old is Aachen (A ix-la-Chapelle), less than 30 miles west of Cologne, at the western border of Germany. The city’s hot springs have been used for curative purposes since before the Romans came. Aachen is the city of Charlemagne and, since his time, one of the important pilgrimage goals north of the Alps. Charlemagne’s throne of stone stands in the chapel he built. The holy relics, including Christ’s swaddling clothes, the gown the Holy Virgin wore the night Christ was born, and the crucified Savior’s loin cloth, are shown to the faithful every seven years in St. Mary’s shrine. South of Aachen is Trier (Treves), once the capital of the west Roman empire, with magnificent remnants of Roman architecture: the imperial baths, an entire temple field, the mighty Porta Nigra (black gate), and the Roman circus.
The Rhine . . . For a century and a half, a trip along the Rhine has been an essential part of the Continental “Grand Tour.” The ancient cathedrals of Cologne, Mainz, Worms (city of the Nibelungs), Speyer, Xanten (the Siegfried city) and many others glide majestically by, their spires mirrored in the water. You see picturesque little wine towns nestled at the feet of vine-clad hills, and romantic medieval castles set off by terraced vineyards or steep crags.
The Black Forest. . . From the middle Rhine the road leads south into the Black Forest. It is a charming, sunny cluster of secondary and high mountain ranges, named “black” because of the dark firs in the dense woods. Excellent roads traverse the entire region. The thatched-roof peasant architecture is found only here, as are the colorful native costumes, particularly the women’s headgear, differing in each valley. Baden-Baden is the doorway to the Black Forest and Lake Constance. The Black Forest is rich in curative thermal and mineral springs. In addition to the cure service, there is plenty of activity. You may gamble at the casino, play tennis and go trout fishing and horseback riding, and play golf on a lovely 18-hole course. During “Baden-Baden Week” at the end of August, international society assembles on Iffesheim Race Court to watch the most famous stables compete for the Grand Prize. Among the well-known hotels are Brenner’s Parkhotel, Badhotel Badischer Hof, Europaeischer Hof, Hotel Runkewitz, and Badhotel zum Hirsch. The doorway to the