i;cî Ci ci '
HEARTLAND OF THE AMERICAS
g North and
The Mira f lores locks at the Pacific terminus of the world-famous Panama Canal Miraflores plus Pedro Miguel locks raise and lower the ships on the Pacific side of the canal, while Go t u n handles the Atlantic side.
exico an
Your vacation will be a Voyage of Discovery, a journey of constant delight, if you plan to take advantage of the excellent facilities, the economical fares, and the well-timed connections made possible through the combined schedules of Mexicana and Lacsa/ two superb airlines serving the great Central American and Caribbean area . . .
See more and use up less time traveling by flying on your Caribbean cruise, to the metropolitan cities of Mexico City, 5an Jose (Costa Rica) and Havana, the thriving, fascinating tropical cities of 5an Salvador, Panama, Brand Cayman, Havana and Miami ...
Along with the comforts and conveniences of modern cosmopolitan areas, the Heartland of the Americas offers you seaside and inland resorts for recreation and relaxation, the blue ocean waters and the rugged mountain playgrounds. And with it all, a glimpse into the ancient and intriguing civilizations of miraculous Mayan culture, the songs and dances with Latin-American and Afro-Caribbean rhythms, the glamor and joy of living reflected in the gaiety of folk festivals and intimate nightspots...
Marks of lava flows twist down the sides of Izal-co volcano in El Salvador, often called the "lighthouse of the sea because its flames could be seen for miles out to sea- I z a I co ranks among the most active volcanos in the area.
Probably no landmark is more familiar to tourists than Morro Castle, tradition steeped fortress guarding the entrance to Havana harbor. It s used mainly as a lighthouse and a signal tower for arriving ships.
You will feel like singing and dancing to the tune of "mariachi" music the minuete you set foot in sunny, colorful Mexico. A new fun-filled world opens up before you: pyramids, bullfights, ¡ai-alai, picturesque villages...
The peasant dress of Costa Rica is colorful and gay, and when worn by the beautiful women for which the country is known is striking indeed. Nowadays traditional costumes are only seen at fiestas and gala events.