
by Flying Clipper!
Enjoy the luxury of flying . . . and spend your travel-time saved in Japan. Aboard a fast, dependable 4-engine Pan American Clipper, Japan is short hours away from most Pacific points and conveniently reached from any place in the world . . . that’s because Tokyo is a main stop on Pan American’s vast Round-the-World routes.
Your personal comfort is assured when you fly Pan American. You’ll enjoy the ever friendly hospitality —the wonderful, individually prepared meals—the mile-erasing comfort of big deep-cushioned lounge chairs. You’ll relax with the quiet satisfaction that comes with flying Pan American . . . pioneer of Pacific flying and the world’s most experienced airline. Schedules are fast, frequent and dependable. For complete information see your travel agent or nearest Pan American office. And remember, alternate routings, side trips and stopovers are easily arranged to double your travel pleasure.
1954 EDITION
TOURS INSIDE
. so near by PAN
Flying Clipper
Pan American World Airways
^/ne System of fhe^Flyiny Clippers

Clipper, Trade Mark, Pan American World Airways, Inc
TO
a
KÌsìn
You’ll get there in hours and talk about it for years.
Fly by Clipper to Japan... it takes less time than you may think ... Pan American Clippers bring the wonders of Japan to anyone who has a week or more set aside for a trip.
A mystic blend of the very old and the very new. That’s Japan ... land of magnificent arts, natural beauties, color and charm. Visit strangely beautiful shrines and moated castles resplendent in their storybook settings. You’ll enjoy the gaiety of colorful festivals ... the formality of the classic theater...sights beheld nowhere else in the world. Yes, you’ll be charmed as never before by the quaint customs of the Japanese people and the perfection of their arts.
All this travel magic awaits when you step from your Flying Clipper at fabulous Tokyo where these exciting tours begin.
More time for sightseeing fun
Tori¡ at ancient Itsukushima Shrine on Miyajima Island
Tours are carefree . . . easy to arrange — Everything is handled for you. And one price covers all your necessary expenses in Japan—even tips. Just take your pick from the all-expense itineraries on the next pages. Each sight-seeing tour is carefully chosen— even the short 2-day tour is a memorable experience.
More time for individual sightseeing, if you prefer—
Extended visits, either before or after the conducted tours, are easily arranged. A total stay in Japan of up to 60 days is allowed for tourists. This gives you time to enjoy other sight-seeing trips and short excursions. Or you can explore on your own ... in great cities like Tokyo and Osaka, in glamorous Kyoto and magnificent resorts like Nikko and Hakone.
the Flying Clipper way