ense <zákpan “Tours
14-DAY TOUR... $446
JTB itinerary 433
MIYAJIMA
MOJI
V
-V-s:
HIROSHIMA
KOBE
• NIKKO
KYOTO
HAKONE
BEPPU
NAGOYA
'TOKYO ' KAMAKURA
NUMAZU
12	th day — Morning sightseeing by auto in metropolitan Osaka. Because of its myriad canals this city is often described as the Venice of Japan. Afternoon limited express with diner to Tokyo. View magnificent Mt. Fuji en route.
13	th day — Board morning train for Nikko — spectacular combination of mountain scenery, dazzling Oriental splendor and lofty cryptomeria trees. Afternoon visit to Toshogu Shrine.
14	th day — Morning excursion by auto and cable car to Kegon Waterfall and lovely Lake Chuzenji. Afternoon train to Tokyo.
st day — Afternoon sightseeing tour by auto in Tokyo visiting such fascinating places as the Imperial Palace Plaza, the Diet Building, the Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and its Memorial Picture Gallery, a Japanese garden, the famous Ginza shopping district and other wonders.
nd day — Morning free to explore Tokyo's countless delights. Afternoon auto to Kamakura, seaside resort famed for its great bronze Buddha. Then drive to Hakone National Park where the placid lake reflects double view of world famous Mt. Fuji.
3	rd day — Morning auto to Numazu on the shore of Suruga Bay where you board limited express train with diner to Nagoya. Afternoon sightseeing by auto.
4	th day—Morning train to picturesque Toba, then to Pearl Island where you see the whole process of pearl culture and pearl necklace manufacture. Afternoon train to Kyoto.
th day — All-day sightseeing tour of Kyoto, center of Japanese fine arts. You visit the old Imperial Palace, Gold Pavilion, Nijo Castle, Heian Shrine, Hall of a Myriad Buddhist Images, Nishijin silk weaving factory and shops rich in damascene, lacquer, chinaware and kimonos.
6 th day — Morning auto to Nara, ancient park city of tamed deer and temples. The grand Daibutsu Buddha, biggest of its kind on earth, is here. Afternoon auto to Kyoto for shopping.
th day—In Kyoto, all day free to explore the temples and shrines that attest to the ancient splendor of the city.
8	th day — Morning free to explore Kyoto. After lunch, train to the great seaport of Kobe. Here you board a steamer bound for Beppu by way of the Inland Sea.
9	th day — Steamer docks at Beppu in the afternoon. You visit the “Hells” to see a fantastic chain of steaming, boiling ponds.
10	th day — Morning train to Moji, and then express train with diner through the Undersea Tunnel to Hiroshima. Afternoon tour by auto to see the reconstruction of this atomic-bombed city.
j th day — Morning auto to Miyajima (“Shrine Island”), noted for its magnificent scenery and beautiful shrine. The shrine is built on piers which run into the sea. Return to Hiroshima for lunch and take afternoon express train to Osaka.
r

7-DAY TOUR... $237
JTB itinerary 429
• NIKKO
ATAMI
_ TOKYO KAMAKURA
1	st day — Afternoon sightseeing by auto in Tokyo visiting such places as the Imperial Palace Plaza, Diet Building, Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and Memorial Picture Gallery, a Japanese garden and shopping districts.
2	nd day — Morning auto to Kamakura and mountainous Hakone. After lunch, auto to Atami on the seashore via Ten Province Pass. Night express train from Atami for Kyoto in comfortable sleeper.
3	rd day — Arrive in Kyoto in morning. All-day sightseeing and shopping tour of this venerable city, rich in art treasures.
4	th day — Morning excursion by auto to Nara, first permanent capital of Japan and cradle of Japanese art and literature. Return to Kyoto for lunch. Afternoon to browse and shop.
th day—Morning limited express train with diner to Tokyo. Enjoy a breath-taking view of Mt. Fuji en route.
6 th day—Board morning train for Nikko about which the Japanese say, “Don’t say 'Kekko' (sublime) until you have seen Nikko.” Afternoon visit to Toshogu Shrine.
th day—Morning excursion by auto and cable car to beautiful Kegon Waterfall and Lake Chuzenji. Afternoon train back to Tokyo.
S™° HAKONE • NARA
ATAMI * KAM/
TOKYO
KAMAKURA
5-DAY TOUR .. . $184
JTB itinerary 428
st day-—Afternoon auto tour visiting Imperial Palace Plaza, Diet Building, Meiji Shrine Outer Garden and its Memorial Picture Gallery and a Japanese garden.
2	nd day — Morning auto to Kamakura and mountainous Hakone. After lunch auto to Atami on the seashore via Ten Province Pass. After dinner, night express train for Kyoto in comfortable sleeper.
3	rd day—Arrive Kyoto in the morning. All day auto excursion takes you to the old Imperial Palace, silk weaving factory, Heian Shrine and garden, Hall of Thousand Buddhas; lacquer, cloisonne, porcelain factories.
4	th day—Morning excursion to Nara by auto visiting Deer Park, Kasuga Shrine, Big Bell and Daibutsu. After lunch return to Kyoto. Afternoon free to explore on your own.
th day—Morning limited express train with diner to Tokyo. You see a magnificent view of Mt. Fuji en route — arrive back in Tokyo in the afternoon.
2-DAY TOUR...$42.50
JTB itinerary 424
st day—Board morning train for Nikko, famous summer resort 90 miles north of Tokyo. Toshogu Shrine, one of the most famous in Japan, is visited in the afternoon. Its gates have been sketched and photographed by visitors from all over the world.
2 nd day—Morning excursion by auto and cable car high into the Nikko mountains. Spectacular Kegon Waterfall, which drops a sheer 300 feet from placid Lake Chuzenji, is visited. Afternoon train returns you to Tokyo.
Stately Osaka Castle	Great Bronze Buddha
at Kamakura
Additional conducted all-expense tours, as well as independent all-expense tours, are also available. Ask your Travel Agent or Pan American Office for full particulars and complete trip-planning help.
Tour price covers all these expenses—first-class rail transportation with sleeper; hotel rooms and meals, motor-coach sightseeing trips, guides, admission fees; transferring you and your hand-baggage (2 suitcases per person) between airports, stations, hotels; yes, even tips. Not included, of course, are flight fares and all other purely personal expenses like laundry, liquor, insurance and transportation for heavy baggage.
Arrangements? Easy... and they’re made easier by your Travel Agent or Pan American representative who will gladly help you with your reservations and other necessary details. Because of fluctuating availability, advance reservations cannot be made for a specific hotel. The official Japan Travel Bureau handles all arrangements for hotels and conveyance as agents only.
ALL TOURS INDICATED ARE CONDUCTED-Rates quoted cover cost per person in parties of two. Rates reduced for larger groups.
All information regarding services and fares contained herein is subject to alteration without notice.
Kintai Bridge at Iwakuni near Hiroshima
Japan ... a land of classic arts