Here’s yet another Pan Am Service exclusively designed—in association with Vacation Exchange Club Inc.—to give you more value for your vacation dollar. Thisfolder contains all the information you’ll need to:
Take the whole family abroad, economically.
Really get to know the country you’re visiting.
Vacation with the conveniences only a real home can offer.
Choose an inexpensive vacation locale— at home or abroad.
Obtain a base from which to visit and explore famous places and exciting locales.
Become part of a new neighborhood, with new friends to share the excitement of a different culture or way of life.
Subscribe to the one service that can give you all these things—
Pan Am Home Exchange Service
The
Service
For many years friends and relations have been exchanging their homes, but in the early 1960’s Vacation Exchange Club Inc. started to organize such a service in America and Home Interchange Ltd. pioneered the same idea in Europe. These two soon consolidated and expanded, and are now working with Pan Am to offer travellers the opportunity to exchange homes in many countries.
The
Reason
The exchanging of homes is part of Pan Am’s drive to help you make the most of your travel investment in time and money. You want to cut your costs without cutting your fun—Home Exchange is a great way to do it. Pan Am is the only airline that has it.
The
Savings
Each exchange seems to include some new form of economy for the families involved. Here’s a short list of some of these economies—
No hotel bills or tips
No caretaker expenses for your home
No expenses for eating out
No rental fees if cars are also exchanged
No boarding fees for pets
In short, the total cost of your vacation could be just your transportation to and from your new home.
The
Method
We publish the Home Exchange Directory each spring. This specialized publication advertises your home with its amenities, and contains similar details of all the other homes offered for exchange during the year. As soon as it is published a copy of the Directory—and follow-up Supplements, is sent to subscribers, all as interested in arranging an exchange as you are.
Subscribers whose forms arrive after publication of the final Supplement will receive the Directory and Supplement but cannot be listed in them.
The
Procedure
Attached to this folder you will find your Home Exchange Subscription Form. Use it to send us all the particulars on your house or apartment. We’ll include this information in the Home Exchange Directory or Supplements. We’ll send you the latest issue of the Directory and the Supplements as each one is printed. In them you’ll find the listings of all our subscribers and advice on how to best communicate your needs and desires. Choose as many possible trades as you like and write their owners. All exchanges are personal, arranged by you through correspondence. Get to know as many subscribers as you can, then decide—and swap.
It should be remembered that our service is simply to publish lists of interested parties. We cannot be responsible for the homes, or the actions of individual subscribers, or the accuracy of the listings. Nor can we guarantee that an actual exchange will be arranged.
Near your subscription form you will find instructions and advice on what to include. Please follow them.
The fee for this service is $8.50. ($3.00 additional for the inclusion of a photo with listing.) There are no hidden charges.
Mail your completed form and fee to:
Pan Am Home Exchange Service Vacation Exchange Club Inc.
663 Fifth Ave.
New York, N.Y. 10022
Mail not later than these scheduled press dates:
January 20,1972 for Main Directory February 17,1972 for First Supplement March 23,1972 for Second Supplement
(Please turn over.)