Luxury Aloft
via mXfCA/VA
in a DC-7C ... with Radar
The worlds finest luxury airliner—the DC-7C— is at your service, via Los Angeles or Chicago, for your vacation in Mexico, fabulous land of sun and fun. The fastest passenger plane in the world is your home en route to Mexico. And the sky giant is equipped with "magic eye" radar that picks its way through the airlanes to assure the smoothest and most enjoyable trip possible. The new queen of the airliners puts you into Mexico City from Los Angeles in and from Chicago in 5}4 hours. From the Mexican capital you are within 3 hours and 45 minutes of the gay, sophisticated Cuban metropolis, Havana, via Mexicana. Whether you go on to Havana, or travel around fascinating Mexico, supreme super-luxury is yours from the moment you start your vacation aboard the Mexicana DC-7C. You sink into your soft-cushioned, comfort-designed reclining chair, big and roomy, to chat, read, dine or doze i«»a pampering siesta. The cabin is pressurized, air-conditioned and exquisitely decorated for your
Plan your Trip to Mexico With Your TRAVEL AGENT
WHEN you have decided on a vacation in Mexico, you'll find many answers to questions that arise by calling on your travel agent. Let him take over, in fact, and the cost to you is the same. He can plan an itinerary to meet with your wishes. His recommendations will be based on long experience. He knows the travel requirements and can relieve you of the need for making arrangements as to additional transportation and hotel reservations, stopovers and alternate routings. Not only does it cost you no more, but since he has up-to-date information on Mexi-cana's Magic Carpet All-inclusive Air Cruises and low-cost Tourist Service, he can often save you money. So, see him first, and you're off to a flying start.
greater pleasure. A button is at hand for you to press if you wish a trained, courteous attendant to bring you a choice of food and drink. The ride is so smooth, so easy, so fast, that before you realize it the Mexicana airliner is settling down gently in Mexico City... and you have arrived, rested, relaxed, ready to get the most from your fiesta vacation in wonderful Mexico...
Printed in Mexico
CMA
Imnrocn <
AFFILIATE OF
MEXICANA DEAVIACION
Mexico's First Airline Flying since 1924
Pam	Amer(camWorld