As Near As Your Airport...
After a restful sky cruise, step down into
Colorful Sunny
mxtco
You'll feel like singing and dancing as the fiesta mood of this wonderful country engulfs you the minute you set foot here to begin your Happy Days vacation in Mexico. A whole, new fun-filled world opens up before you: cosmopolitan hotels and restaurants and elegant night clubs... bullfights... horse-rocing... cockfights... jai-alai... spacious boulevards and vast forest parks... concerts... theatre... ballet... exciting market squares... museums... the floating gardens of Xochimilco... University City, one of the wonders of the modern world... all this right in Mexico City, which is only the beginning of the many tours you'll want to include on your trip There's the excitement of deep-sea fishing, and hunting, and relaxing repose in this fiesta-loving land of the Aztecs and Mayas, of Charros and China Poblanas. You'll thrill to the glamorous resorts of the Pacific... Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta, Mazatlan the Gulf playground of Veracruz... Taxco... Cuernavaca, Oaxaca, Merida, Campeche, Guadalajara and many other picturesque places accessible by dazzling scenic rides over the Mexican countryside.
»
Sp

¥
m
\ m
w
•Ai
■à
A.
£
\A
{
A:
K
\
l
m



rvt
m



9»

4 .

Picturesque butterfly nets may be seen on Lake Patzcuaro.

-%■
Shopping in Mexico is a pleas-in g pastime for tourists.
ml
Pit]
pi]
mi
0*1
0*
0*1
«■»«wif li'[r i
.... imBMT''-'-
im'i *
n »
■ Ï * <» *
L





i
The excitement of the traditional bullfight will be long remembered among the variety of spectacles awaiting you in marvelous Mexico.
Live HIGH... at LOW Cost During Your in Glamorous, Happy Days

■
Spacious boulevards like Paseo de la Reforma with handsome buildings, old and modern, thrill the traveler.
mtaeo
i ’
$100 in U.S. Currency brings you 1,250 Pesos, and when you translate this into hotel, food and travel costs, you'll find you can have a big time for less than $10 a day per person.
You can give your entire wardrobe a delightful workout during your travels in Mexico. On the cool, high plateau of Central Mexico, you'll be using your spring and fall garments and your early summer clothing. A the tropical resorts, you'll use your beach and sportswear, and in the temperate areas what you'd wear on a summer night back home.
You'll wonder, perhaps, about tipping, and the answer is that it's about the same as in the U.S. - 10 to 20% of your bill generally, according to the type of service you have received. Porters and bellboys usually get 2 to 5 pesos per person.
Xochimilco offers a delightful spot for outings on windingfpicturesque flower-lined canals, with music, food and drink.

n

•***».«

Ü
art
>lony,
c°lonialhTcX°y
.„¡♦h elaborately ^ p|ace Qf *>
with
and We*'*
S3
I

i	SJ A
Cosmopolitan hotels and restaurants provide the tourist in Mexico with excellent service in a glamorous setting unsurpassed anywhere.
Acapulco is among the better known of scores of Mexican ocean and bay resorts, '¿j
Remains of ancient civilizations, like the pyramidsofTeotihuacan, are found in many regions of Mexico.
ft
y>rL
* s
fbr'



Bp