POSTMASTER: Return Postage Guaranteed
HONOLULU HOLIDAY
Swim in the surf at glamorous Waikiki! Dance to delightful native melodies! Hawaii is the playspot of the Pacific. By luxurious Flying Clipper, in a surprisingly short time you'll find the unique beauty of mountains and surf-swept beaches, exotic tropical flowers, palm-sifted moonlight, all the fantastic brilliance of Hawaii—a thrilling reality. Here, against a new, exciting background, you can enjoy your favorite sport, discover new fun in surfboarding and canoeing and explore the wonders of the Sacred Falls, Haleakala, the House of the Sun" and the myriad scenic masterpieces of the islands. The ultra-modern city of Honolulu, with its sumptuous hotels offering every comfort, seems a paradox against the vividly colorful background with its lingering atmosphere of a kingdom once ruled by the ancient Polynesian monarchs. Great pineapple plantations, a large production of sugar and its geographies! position make Hawaii vastly important in world trade.
VIGOROUS! VITAL! YOUNG! AUSTRALIA
Brilliant and sparkling, with vitality, set like a jewel on one of the most beautiful harbors of the world, the great city of Sydney is an unforgettable introduction to Australia, land of sunshine and the "outdoors." The witchery of forests of eucalyptus and the glorious bushland, the fascinating coral islands of the great Barrier Reef are matched only by the splendid surfi beaches of Bondi and Coogee. The thrill of angling for swordfish and tuna, golf on championship courses, horseracing, and many other sports are close by the modern comforts of large cities. Bursting with busy living, the gay and colorful centers such as Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, are also key points for Australia's amazingly rapid development. Already one of the leading agricultural countries, its industrial progress—speeded by the war, makes Australia increasingly important as an influence in world trade.
STRANGE MAORI CUSTOMS... NEW ZEALAND!
A thrilling excursion into the primitive past, the ancient ceremonies of the Maoris, their little villages with beautifully carved meeting houses, are easily within reach through the magic of the Flying Clipper. New Zealand's majestic mountain ranges, cloud-high volcanoes surrounded by bubbling hot springs and geysers, placid lakes and limitless valleys, form a dramatic setting for strangely contrasting modern resorts offering the utmost in exciting sports. Championship golf courses are found all over both North and South islands. Clear, cool rivers and sea-beaches washed by the Tasman Sea, or the blue Pacific Ocean, afford excellent opportunity for swimming and bathing while in breeze-swept bays large fleets of graceful sailboats bob across the waters. Horse-races are held all year 'round both in country and metropolitan areas. There’s deep-sea and big game fishing at the splendid Bay of Islands, winter sports on famous Ruapehu mountain, and the adventure of a trip down the legendary Wanganui River through miles of beautiful fern-clad gorges and rapids. For a change in mood, don't miss the overwhelming spectacle of Sutherland Falls—the highest in the world, or a visit to the lovely, quiet bays like Ship Cove where Captain Cook came to rest and refresh his men. Wherever you go, the hills and the sea are on every horizon—a great, strange, and wonderful land.
EXPLORE THE PHILIPPINES J
Traces of early Spanish settlers still remain, while the terraced rice fields of northern Luzon, built through the centuries by tireless mountain people, are indicative of the Philippines' even more distant past. Slumbering volcanoes dot the many islands and the soft, tropical climate has produced vividly colored orchids and flowers of many hues. Monkeys chatter at dawn amidst the deep green foliage of hardwood forests covering mountains that slope to the sea. Here the storied atmosphere of the South Seas comes alive. In lovely sheltered coves, native grass huts are built on stilts over the water. The sails of Moro outrigger canoes, brilliant with ancient design, paint a memorable scene. By way of contrast, the great modern city of Manila presents a kaleidoscopic cross-section of the Far East. Native Filipinos, Orientals, Europeans, Americans, work together to make it once again a great world port.
Copyright 1947, Pan American Airways, Inc.