Siti¡Pfi
The world famous Haleakala volcano, on the island of Maui, is an unforgettable spectacle. Impressive with its height (10,025 ft.) and gigantic circumference of 21 miles, the blazing sunsets seen from its rim have caused it to be called the "House of the Sun.”

A drive through beautiful pineapple plantations, stretching across Oahu’s mountain-ringed valleys, ends delightfully with a taste of the golden, ¡uicy fruit itself.
With autos and gasoline scarce items in the Philippines, the saucy carramata, with its tiny pony, jingling trappings and smiling driver, carry the visitor about Manila's shops and scenes.
The beautiful blue waters of the Philippines are pleasant highways where picturesque outriggers sail serenely among these lovely, green and purple islands.
Ancient songs of the islands, telling of the warrior kings who led their people in fierce tribal wars, may still be heard. In Honolulu stands this statue of King Kamehameha I who brought all of the islands under his rule.
Now being repaired with help from America, Manila’s Post Office on the busy Pasig River was the scene of heavy fighting in the liberation of the Philippines.
High in the rugged mountains of northern Luzon are the fairylike rice terraces built many centuries ago by an ancient Filipino people.
fflirvrvrrr
m mm mm mm mm m m $ f
r t 1J
it™ As your Flying Clipper approaches Honolulu, Waikiki Beach, with its beautiful palm-shaded buildings, vividly hued ocean and looming Diamond Head, lies beneath you.
Hold tight! Out through the surf a bronzed Hawaiian expert will guide your surfboard, then, like a playina dolphin, you’ll ride the long, rolling waves for the thrill of your life.
iiW>i Australian cowboys—among the best horsemen in the world—drive huge beef herds over the vast inland grazing lands. Here many cattle ranches are as large as those of Texas.
Reminiscent of her parent country, England, are many of the scenes and customs of young Australia. Oxford-like University of Sydney ranks with the world’s leading institutions of learning.
BWComely Maori maidens,
descendants of New Zealand’s original warrior people, pose in native dress before their ornately-carved houses and grotesque statues at Rotorua, North Island.
New Zealand waters are un-excelled for pleasure cruising and deep-sea fishing. Here the keeper of the Cape Brett lighthouse watches a small boat head out for the off-shore fishing grounds,
Rainbow trout, Lake Rotorua —where once the paddles of the giant Maori war canoes sparkled in the sun, this finny war-r	i rior flashed in all-out
battle before being
Anchoring their chartered power cruiser, a fishing party drop their lines in a sheltered cove, beneath the rugged, snowy grandeur of Mt. Pembroke Glacier, South Island, New Zealand.
Beautiful Welling- ^ ton, capital of New j Zealand, fondly embraces its sparkling harbor while its suburbs rise into the rolling foothilis of snowcapped Lnountain ranges wlrsh extend the I en cliii of the islands. ]
Sydney, shining metropolis, is the third largest city in the entire British Empire. Located on sunny Botany Bay, its splendid beaches are the main holiday attractions.
Australia, different in so many wonderful ways, is a picturebook of amazing sights. Here visitors hold a baby wallaby (small kangaroo) and a groundhog“’ like wombat.
PAN American World Airways
■'	System
of	the^Fly in y C/ipp e r s
iprt p PI	|		
			