periods. Chief points of interest are the temple of Apollo, fountain of Peirene, the Agora, Odeum, Theater and Museum. The Tourist Pavilion Lais overlooks a lovely view.
Mykonos... Is reached by boat from Piraeus, the port of Athens, in about 8 hours. It is a beautiful island noted for its picturesque windmills, gleaming white, modest houses, and good bathing. One of the most fashionable Aegean Sea islands, it is a meeting place for artists in summer. Stay at the Leto Hotel or the Enia Hotel.
Crete... is an hour by air south of Athens, the mythical birthplace of Zeu> md site of extensive remains of early Minoan civilization, including the beautiful Palace of Knossos (2nd millennium b. c.)
Delos . . . An hour by caique (or small native motorboat) from Mykonos, is believed to be Apollo’s birthplace. The excavated former religious and commercial center reveals interesting temples, clubs, markets, a ’.eater, and private homes with beautiful mosaics.
Moun	... A peninsula in northern Greece, not easily ac-
cessible, is u;ious territory dotted with beautiful 14th century mon-• iteries w! -e thousands of nadnkV live in medieval seclusion. No women yisi-ors are allowed on Athos.
Tourist C'Sk?. 4 Church* i St:ret, tftens. The Pan American office is at 6, VeTiiiiio’s wenue Ye'. o’2 »95 .i The Greek Press Office is at
SOUrYJES OF F11RTHC1R. INFORMATION . .. The National
tit vj, y riii.au » • vvwiuw l u- . yJ . . -j
69 E. 79th St'cet. lew York 22, N Y
[\
WHEREVER YOU 33©
YOU HEED NEW HORIZONS
This reprint covers, in abridged form, only one of 109countries describee I:, detail in Pan American’s best-selling NEV ..ORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 640-page book ti!so includes useful travel tips, weather craYs. photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write r.-.i American, Dept. R, P.O. Box PAA, Jamaica, N Y-. 11430. Only $2 in U. S. currency or equivalent
of 109 countries describee i: can’s best-selling NEV’ . GUIDE. The 640-page book
TJ 965 Pan American '
Clio.. ■ • urOd;No- nwp.
:r World Airways ■ rn ".'ons. 7...M Reg: 0.
M Reg: 0. S. Pat. Off.
C liS-10 2/65 Printed in U. S. A.