day mornings at the Orpheus Hall in winter; Monday evenings in summer. During August and September, the Athens Festival is in full swing at the ancient open-air Odeon of Herodes Atticus. Performances include classical Greek drama, operas, concerts, dance recitals ... all with Greek artists and other nationals.
NIGHT CLUBS. . . Athens is one of the most cosmopolitan and socially alive centers of the Mediterranean. Night clubs: Acropole, Atliinea, Coronet, Embassy. Near town: Asteria, Mt. Parties, Queen Anne. Popular bars, in addition to the hotel bars: Floca, Zonar’s, Seventeen. For local color, the tavernas are heartily recommended for dinner, dancing and floor shows. Ask at your hotel for guidance.
RELIGION. . . Greek Orthodox. Churches of other deno" a tions; Catholic, Protestant and Jewish in the cer5'r of A. • RESTAURANTS. . . Aside from the laree rants in Athens are: Zonars, Floca, / ’
Costis. Outside the city: Asteria, • • pc r , .
SHOPS AND STORES. ..' ndi;. from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., and " I-	•>	’ .k
and 5 to 8 p.m., except Wedpesdhi'ffclkci .¿htio jitaupA
SPORTS . . . Hunfit	ViMG.i *	* S it nost c' here !
Greece from Sept. 1 to M thon and Souli,
Carla, near Volos, H. dr ¿«iCddm-.,	< *:• « c^cc.
season on aquati r ' • ;m J on sy	m-'re >v'bs< x gk
and ends M of August to tisp permits
t Ma. \-,\t I are hun*i ig arch ! 5
Street fishc Fish 15
dri hikii
WJ lar enjo
e shunted fror the end tion and hunting 30 Kolokotnoni reek ^waters. Amateur Association of Amateur ‘ brhmcrdal Bank,
get in touch with the Bay of Munich.1«. Yacht ow.aeis facilities efl'ered to members m nitted. through a member. Regattas m many ports and islands. Swim limpid, blue sea..tyring spring and cogst near Athens. Facilities, tor the new beach development re ano. Vouliagmeny a 40-m.inu'.. Lyc'adgs Island:? and Sporades, desi an ideal for spear fishing, t . \ are several mountains in Greece for Vc ■ t Fames, near Athens, is particularly popn-hciiday exams iO. ’3. Excellent climbing can be •getps in the Peloponne.se, Kithairon, Parnassus nd Mount Olympus i>; northern Greece. Contact , 7 Karageoxge Seraas St., Athens. hi i't;-Atper,; is 5. a.m i.i New York.