on the Arabian Sea is called the Gateway to India. There is an actual gateway built on the waterfront to commemorate the visit of King George V and Queen Mary in 1911. It is now used for ceremonial landings and departures. The island of Bombay is one of the most important centers in India and is linked with the world by its modern harbor, the Santa Cruz airport, and good overseas communication. Since the division of India and Pakistan in 1947, when many Hindus moved from Pakistan, Bombay has grown rapidly to a population of four and one-half million. Reported to be the most cosmopolitan city in the East, Bombay has much appeal for the tourist. Places of interest include the Prince of Wales Museum, a stately, domed building with sections featuring arts, archaeology and natural history; the Jehangir Art Gallery; the Raja Bai Tower of the Bombay University Library, with a splendid view of the city; Marine Drive, in the modern residential area, leading to Malabar Hill, which faces the Arabian Sea. The view from here, popularly called “The Pearl Necklace,” is magnificent—especially at night, when it reminds you of the French Riviera. The Hanging Gardens on the slopes of Malabar Hill are most attractive. The Terrace Garden is noted for its fine example of topiary art—the trees and shrubs have been trained and trimmed into the shapes of a variety of animals. The Mahalaxmi Temple, dedicated to Laxmi, goddess of wealth and plenty, is a popular place of Hindu pilgrimage. Near the temple is a Moslem shrine built 500 yards from the mainland on rocks which are completely submerged at high tide.
Other points of interest in Bombay: The Mahalaxmi Race Course, one of the finest in the East, where races are held on week-ends and holidays, from October to March; the Victoria Gardens with the Bombay Zoo, 20 minutes by car from the city; Crawford Market for fresh fruits, vegetables and fish on Dadabhoy Naorojee Road, with dozens of nearby shops selling everything from pots and pans to expensive jewelry; the Pherozshah Mehta Road and the Colaba Causeway, also shopping areas for Indian goods. Most shops have fixed prices, but bargaining goes on in pavement-shops. It is advisable to go out shopping with someone who knows the city.
Near Crawford Market is a fascinating part of Bombay, with Hindu and Iain temples and Moslem mosques in the midst of narrow lanes and teeming with people of varied origin—Parsees, Gujaratis, Maharashtrians, Tamils, Malayalis, Goans, Sikhs, Bengalis and others. Each retains his regional individuality of dress, language and customs.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION . . . Government of India Tourist Offices are located in Calcutta, Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Agra, Varanasi (Benares), Jaipur, Darjeeling, Bangalore, Cochin, Aurangabad and Bhopal. Approved guides are also available at these offices. In New York the Government of India Tourist Office is located at 19 East 49th Street and in San Francisco at 685 Market Street. There are Pan American offices at 42 Choringhee Road, Calcutta (Tel. 442651), the Imperial Hotel, New Delhi (Tel. 48717, 48172), the Taj Mahal Hotel, Bombay (Tel. 35304).