Nepal. . . The country of Nepal has recently become open for tourists. It offers such spectacular views as the all-in-one view of seven or eight of the highest mountains in the world and many other attractions. Khatmandu, the Capital of Nepal, can be reached by air from Calcutta, Patna and Delhi.
Northern India . . . South of Delhi, about 4 hours by road or rail through extremely interesting country, is Agra, the city of the Taj Mahal. Besides this fabulous edifice of extraordinary beauty, other important sights are the Agra Fort, Emperor Akbar’s magnificent mausoleum at Sikandra, the tomb of Itmad-ud-Daulah and Dayal Bagh. Twenty-six miles from Agra on the way to Jaipur is Fatehpur Sikri, the abandoned Mughal capital city of palaces, which is in an excellent state of preservation. All of these date back to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Benares (Varanasi), halfway between Delhi and Calcutta, is a Hindu pilgrim center. It is also the home of a famous university. About 6 miles from Benares is Sarnath, one of the great Buddhist centers, where the Buddha preached his first sermon. The pink city of Jaipur, an hour’s flight from Delhi, is the capital of Rajasthan, in the heart of India’s princely states. Colorful scenes, picturesque vistas of elegant buildings, dream-palace rooms, elephant and camel processions—it’s a page out of an Eastern fairy tale. Amber, seven miles away, is a picturesque medieval capital containing many interesting architectural ruins.
About 150 miles northwest of New Delhi lies the much-publicized new capital of the Indian state of Punjab at Chandigarh. The first phase of this superbly designed city has risen out of the jungle at the foot of the Sivalikh range in only two years and represents the collaboration of some of the world’s foremost architects, including Le Corbusier of France.
Kashmir ... A tourist’s paradise. The health resorts of Kashmir are among the most picturesque of the world. Pahalgam, in the center of the Liddar Valley, has excellent camping sites. Gulmarg, 8,700 feet above sea level, is the center of Kashmir’s winter sports. Srinagar, the summer capital, like Venice, is built on the waterfront, on which float quaint houseboats designed and furnished for comfort and rest. Shikaras (light taxiboats) convey tourists over the lakes and bring vendors of daily necessities, curios and handicrafts, for which Kashmir is famous, to the houseboats. The beautiful terraced gardens, laid out in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries by the great Mughals, are another attraction in this playground of the East. The permit to visit Kashmir can be obtained from the Director, Government of India Tourist Office, in Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta or Madras, or from the Ministry of Defence, New Delhi.
Southern India . . . Madras has a beautiful beach on the Bay of Bengal, a good museum and attractive public buildings. Thirty-seven miles from Madras is the seventh-century seaport of Mahabalipuram, famous for its seven rock-cut pagodas. Madurai to the south is noted for the great Meenakshi Temple. Octacamund is known as the “Queen of Hill Stations.” The enchanting Brindavan Gardens are only 13 miles