drink only boiled or bottled water.
WHAT TO BUY .. . Silks, brocades, woven and printed textiles, jewelry, costume jewelry, ivory, woodwork (sandalwood, rosewood and walnut wood), articles made from horn, brass and copperware, silverware, bidri and other inlaid work, leather articles, lacquer work, toys, gold-and-silver-thread embroidery, lace, handbags, Jaipuri embroidered slippers. Government-controlled establishments, department stores and other well-known shops have fixed prices; bargaining is done in the smaller shops.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Daytime dress is casual because of the high temperatures during all but the winter seasons. Seersucker, light cottons, dark or light linen—in short, washable fabrics. During the summer these are comfortable day or night. In winter, light tweed and flannel for Calcutta and heavy woolen clothing for Delhi is necessary. For the rainy season (mid-June to mid-October) be sure to bring a raincoat. In Bombay, light clothing is suitable the year round; Calcutta is quite formal so men may find a dinner jacket useful.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Calcutta . . . Long the capital of British India, Calcutta is still the commercial metropolis of modern India. It has a population of well over 5,000,000 and is a huge, sprawling, noisy city, teeming with life. The nerve center is Dalhousie Square, where tall, imposing buildings, Government offices and mercantile houses stand in a quadrangle around the placid waters of the reservoir. But the center of attraction is the famous Chowringhee, the beautiful wide avenue flanked on one side by shops, cinemas and fashionable restaurants, and on the other by the Maidan, which stretches as a vast expanse of green dotted with reservoirs, monuments and clusters of trees. Here are the playing fields where crowds gather to watch a football match. Here too are the Eden Gardens, famed as the cricketer’s paradise.
Rising from the Maidan and overlooking the Chowringhee is the marble Victoria Memorial, built by the British. In its galleries are many objects of interest relating to British-Indian history, historical documents and paintings. The Hooghly, like the Thames, has lost some of its natural beauty due to the smoke of the factories that sprawl on its banks, but it is still appealing. Dakshineshwar Temple, where the great saint and yogi of the nineteenth century, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, lived and Belur Math, the monastery founded by his great disciple, Swami Vivekanand, are both on the banks of this river. A little farther away are the Botanical Gardens, which are well worth a visit. Among the sights in these gardens is an ancient banyan tree which has so spread itself that several hundred people can sit in its shade. Connecting the two banks of the river is the new Howrah Bridge, the third largest cantilever bridge in the world.
Among other sights of interest are Fort William, built by Lord Clive in 1773; the Zoological Gardens; the Museum, the biggest in India; the Jain Temple, standing in a fascinating garden; and the Kalighat Temple, the oldest temple of Calcutta, which was there long before the city was founded. Trained guides are available at the