dence Day; Muharram (Moslem holiday); (September-October) Dusserah; (October-November) Diwali (Festival of Lamps).
CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO . . . Cigarettes of Indian and British makes are plentiful. American brands are not available.
CLIMATE ... Being a vast country, India has no uniform climate. In Calcutta, for example, the winter months (November-February) are moderately humid. The summer months (April-October) are quite warm and humid. Delhi experiences extremes of climate. In summer (mid-April to July) the temperature rises to about 110 degrees and it is hot and dusty; the rainy season (July, August and September) is warm and humid and the temperature ranges between 70 degrees and 90 degrees. In winter (mid-November to February) it is cold and bracing, the temperature at times touching 40 degrees or less. Delhi has a short spring (March to mid-April). The best time to visit Bombay is September to March, when temperatures are around 80 degrees. April and May are hot and June, July and August are the monsoon months of torrential rains.
CLUBS . . . Rotary Club in most major cities. Guest members are welcome. In Calcutta there are a number of good clubs, including the Calcutta, the Bengal, the Royal Calcutta Golf Club and an active Chamber of Commerce, which foreign businessmen like to visit. There is also an American Club, which meets once a month and is composed of the majority of the American community.
In Delhi, Delhi Gymkhana, the Chelmsford, Delhi Golf Club, National Sports Club of India (N.S.C.I.) and the Roshanara Club have arrangements for transient memberships. Bombay and Madras have also several European and Cosmopolitan Clubs.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS .. . Visitors should take off their shoes before entering an Indian temple or Mosque. Otherwise behave as you would in your own religious house.
COMMUNICATIONS ... There is a tele-communication system in India. Inter-city telephone calls may be made from larger cities, and radio telephone calls to the United States. Telegrams may be sent from the larger cities and railway stations.
CURRENCY .. . The monetary unit is the rupee, worth about 21 cents. It is divided into 100 naya paisa.
CUSTOMS REGULATIONS AND DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS ... Passport and visa are required. “Tourist visas” are recommended. Better obtain a tourist introduction card when you apply for your tourist visa, since tourists can enjoy many privileges not otherwise accorded to visitors. Inquire at the local Pan American Office about this. It is advisable to limit yourself to 200 cigarettes or 50 cigars or Va pound of tobacco, one regular size bottle of wine and Vz pint of spirits. There is no specific limit on cosmetics. There should, however, be no such single quantity as to invite suspicion of possible resale in India. Smallpox vaccination required and yellow fever and cholera certificates needed if coming from an infected area. See tip No. 6, Page 9.