plane service from New York to Calcutta, 38Vi hours (elapsed time); Delhi is 3 hours by air from Karachi, 3Vi hours from Calcutta. By ship, 25 to 45 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS... In Calcutta there are three good hotels, the Great Eastern, the Grand, the Spence’s. All have bars, restaurants and orchestras. Rates are about $8 single and $12 double excluding meals. Air-conditioned accommodations are somewhat higher. In the Delhi area there are seven good hotels, Ashoka, the Imperial, Claridge’s, the Janpath and the Ambassador in New Delhi, and the Cecil and Maiden’s in Delhi itself, the inclusive rates ranging from $8 single to $15 double. There are several good hotels in Bombay, the best being the Taj Mahal Hotel, the Ambassador, the Ritz and the Greens Hotel. Rates are $5 to $12 American Plan, single. Suites and air-conditioned rooms can also be had. These hotels provide good European cuisine as well as local dishes, and the water is safe to drink. They each have, a cabaret and a permit room serving drinks to permit holders. (See liquor )
ARTS .. . Some of the outstanding museums are the Indian Museum and the Victoria Memorial Museum in Calcutta; the National Museum, the Central Asian and Antiquities Museum and the National Art Gallery in New Delhi; the Prince of Wales Museum and the Jehangir Art Gallery in Bombay; the Government Museum in Madras.
BALLET. . . There is no ballet as we know it, but dancing occupies a unique place among the arts, combining action, song, melody, rhythm and harmony and is an integral part of Indian life, having both spiritual and social significance. There are four major schools of dancing in India: the classical Bharata Natyam of South India, the Kathakali of Kerala, the Kathak of North India and the Manipuri of Assam. The last three may be regarded as the counterpart of the ballet in the West. The folk ballet is entirely different. Some of the well-known troupes are the Indian National Theater, the Chitra Players, and the Students of Viswabharati (Santiniketan) and Kalak-shetra, Madras.
BANKS .. . There are many banks in Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Madras, some of the important ones being the State Bank of India, the First National City Bank of New York, the Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China, Grindlay’s Bank and Lloyd’s Bank. Besides these there are the Bank of England, the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, and the Netherlands Trading Society in Calcutta, to name a few. There are foreign exchange booths at Dum Dum Airport, Calcutta, the Santa Cruz Airport, Bombay and Palam Airport, Delhi. Traveler’s checks may be either purchased or cashed at the American Express or Thos. Cook’s in Calcutta, Bombay and Madras or at all leading hotels.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS . . . Hindu and Moslem festivals are governed by the lunar calendar, hence within a certain period their dates vary from year to year. January 26, Republic Day celebration; (March-April) Holi (Spring Festival); August 15, Indepen-