MOTION PICTURES .. . There are a number of movie theaters in Bombay, Madras, Calcutta and Delhi which are air-conditioned and comfortable. Both American and British films are shown.
MUSIC . . . Indian music can be heard on All-India Radio. Performances by well-known musicians are held occasionally.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS. . . Night clubs, as we know them, will not be found in India; however, many of the leading hotels have Western-style ballrooms and cabarets.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . India is wonderful for photography; clear light, variety in color and dress, beautiful scenery and ancient monuments provide an inexhaustible store of subjects for the camera. Two cameras, one of which may be a small movie camera, are allowed in duty free. Black-and-white and color films and facilities for developing are available in the big cities. While traveling by air in India, cameras must be placed in stowed baggage. A tourist can bring in 12 plates or 5 rolls of film with a camera and 2 reels of film with a small movie camera, duty free.
RELIGION . . . Hindu, Moslem, and Sikh temples and churches of Catholic, Protestant and Buddhist denominations.
RESTAURANTS ... In addition to the hotel dining rooms and bars, the following are the recommended restaurants: In Calcutta: Kwality, Firpo’s, Nanking, Mocambo, Olympia; in New Delhi, Gaylords, Volga, Alps, Standard, Kwality, York, Nirula’s, Embassy, Wenger’s, Metry; In Delhi, Moti Mahal, Khyber; in Bombay, Rendezvous, Mokabar, Chetana (vegetarian), Gaylords, Volga, Napoli, Eros, Berry’s, Bombelli’s, Gourdon’s, Chez Caroline, Rotisserie, Ambassador’s Grill Room, Gul Mohar.
SHOPS AND STORES ... In Calcutta, New Market, Bengal Home Industries Association; in New Delhi, Central Cottage Industries Emporium, Kashmir Government Arts Emporium and shops in Connaught Place, Janpath and Chandni Chowk.
SPECTATOR SPORTS .. . The most popular games, borrowed from the West, are soccer, cricket, football and tennis. Important tournaments held in all large cities attract big crowds. Horse racing in Calcutta, Bombay, Delhi and Poona.
SPORTS . .. Golf, tennis, badminton, soccer, hockey, polo, cricket, swimming, shikar (hunting—big-game hunting trips can be arranged) and fishing. Facilities are available at clubs for guests of members. For swimming there are some fine beaches in India and a few good pools in Calcutta, Delhi, Bombay and Madras.
TIME . . . Indian Standard Time, is 10’/2 hours later than United States Eastern Standard Time.
TIPPING ... At hotels which do not include a service charge, the usual tip is 10%. Taxi drivers are not tipped.
TRANSPORTATION . . Taxis and bus services. Bus services in India are not comparable with those in the States. Taxis are therefore recommended, preferably special unmetered taxis in Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
WATER . . . Water in cities is reliable, but in general it is wise to