Government Tourist Office, 13 Old Court House Street. Several companies offer sightseeing tours.
Delhi .. . Delhi’s most ancient sites and monuments, dating from India’s Epic Age, emphasize the dynamic change in modern India’s way of life and thought. The city has continuously been the seat of Imperial power since the tenth century. Here, many cities have risen and fallen; only their ruins mark the site where they once stood. Old Delhi has many architectural masterpieces. The Red Fort, built 300 years ago, dominates the city and stands as a symbol of Mughal glory. Inside it are the relics of what was once the Imperial Palace of Shah Jahan, builder of the Taj Mahal. From the Fort to the Fatehpuri Mosque runs the Chandni Chowk, once famous as the richest street in the world. A little to the south towers the famous mosque, the Jama Masjid, one of the largest mosques in the world and one of the noblest buildings in India. South and southwest of the city are the Tomb of Humayun, built in the sixteenth century of red sandstone inlaid with white marble; the Cyclopean ruins of thirteenth-century Tughlakabad, the capital of warrior kings, with its massive fort and the founder’s imposing tomb; and the Qutb Minar, dating from the twelfth century, another tower of victory, beautifully fashioned out of 700-year-old red sandstone, regarded as one of the most perfect towers of the world. Nearby is the famous rustproof Iron Pillar, dating from the fourth century a.d. Other points of interest are Isa Khan’s tomb (fifteenth century in style); Nizamuddin, the burial place of saints, princes and poets for over three centuries; Nawab Safdar Jung’s tomb, the last moghul monument of note (eighteenth century); Haus Khas, fascinating ruins of a once-important university, and a fourteenth-century water reservoir.
New Delhi . .. with its symmetrical buildings, tree-lined avenues and spacious parks, is a planned city. It has a circular Parliament House and an imposing Central Secretariat, which stands at the approaches to the residence of the President of the Republic. On the right bank of the Yamuna is a hallowed spot—Rajghat, where the body of Mahatma Gandhi was cremated in 1948. The samadhi has become a national shrine. The modern Fakshmi Narayan Temple, opened by Mahatma Gandhi in 1937, and Jantar Mantar, an observatory with a unique set of 200-year-old-stone astronomical instruments, are also of interest. Trained guides are available at the Government of India Tourist Office at 88 Janpath.
Eastern India . .. Santiniketan, 93 miles northwest of Calcutta, is the home of famous Viswa Bharati, the international university founded by the poet, Rabindranath Tagore. Darjeeling is a Himalayan hill station from which Mt. Kanchenjunga, the third highest peak in the world, and sometimes Mt. Everest, can be seen. Bhubaneswar, a city of ancient temples, is the new capital of Orissa. Nearby are the Jain and Buddhist rock-cut caves of Khandagiri and Udaygiri and Asoka’s rock edict (second century b.c.) at Dhauli. Puri is well known for the Jagannath Temple and the annual car festival held in June or July. Fifty-one miles from Puri is Konarak, famous for the Sun Temple.