DRUG STORES .. . Chemists, druggists or pharmacists can be found in the shopping and business centers and in most of the hotels. In large cities there is special night and Sunday service. Tourists should not expect to find, except occasionally, American products, especially cosmetics and toilet articles. Generally, any visitor requiring special medicines, vitamins, etc., should bring in enough to last him for his stay in India.
ELECTRIC CURRENT ... In most areas, 220 volts, a.c. British type converter plugs required. Check at your hotel before using U.S. electrical appliances.
FAUNA ... In its variety of wildlife few regions of the earth are as interesting as India. There are more than 500 species of animals. Typical are the wild elephant, tiger, panther, leopard, cheetah, neelgai (blue bull) bison, wild buffalo, rhinoceros, camel, sloth bear, wolf, fox, antelope, sambhar, gazelle, wild pig, monkey, and spotted, barking and swamp deer. There are zoological gardens in Delhi, Calcutta, Lucknow, Jaipur, Baroda, Bombay, Madras, Mysore and Trivandrum. Photographs of wildlife can be taken at the game sanctuaries in the states of Assam, Bombay, Madras, Mysore, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh. There is a large variety of birds, among which the peacock, bulbul, myna and the sarus crane are typical. As for game, pheasant, duck, partridge and geese are plentiful. Hunting excursions can be arranged.
FLORA . . . The better-known botanic gardens are in Calcutta, Darjeeling, Bombay, Poona, Octacamund, Coonoor, Bangalore, Madras and Trivandrum. Among the flowers, lotus, varieties of jasmine, orchid, rose lily, champa, gulmohr and laburnum are typical. The-mango, banana, banyan, neem, pipal, cassia, tamarind, coconut, casuarina, sandalwood, rubber, teak, sheesham, bamboo, cinchona and eucalyptus are some of the tropical trees found in various areas.
FOOD . . . Some of the specialties are: in Calcutta rossagolla and sandesh (desserts); fish curry and rice; shinghara (meat or vegetable patties); in Delhi, tanduri chicken and nan (oven-baked chicken and bread); rogan josh and paratha or chapatti (mutton and wheat pancakes); Pulao or biryani and korma (rice and mutton curry); murge curry (spiced chicken); kabab; desserts—sohan and halva, phirni falooda.
LANGUAGE . . . Hindi is the national language, but English is commonly spoken. In dealing with managers and key personnel of hotels, you will encounter no difficulty when using English.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING . .. Laundries and dry cleaners are available. Domestic launderers (dhobis) pick up and deliver vour laundry. Quick service is available in good hotels.
LIQUOR . . . In Calcutta and Delhi you can get several brands of liquor at considerably higher prices than at home, but in other places, especially Bombay and Madras, liquor permits must be obtained. Inquire at the Pan American office about this. No public drinking is permitted in Delhi. Bombav or Madras.
MEDICAL FACILITIES .. . Several good doctors and surgeons and hospitals and nursing homes. Inquire at your hotel.