British Travel Association, and “Good Food Guide,” available locally, are good reference sources.
In Edinburgh, Café Royal, Albyn Rooms, l’A pert if, the Epicure, and leading hotels are all good. In Glasgow try the Whitehall, the 101 Club, the Grosvenor, the Royal, Rogano, Copacabana, Guy’s and the Gay Gordon, to name only a few.
SHOPS AND STORES.. . Harrods, Dickins and Jones, John Lewis, Harvey Nichols, Woolands, Robinson and Cleaver’s, Fortnum and Mason’s, Selfridge’s and Simpson’s are among London’s top department stores. Marvelous tailors along Savile Row. Wonderful shops along Regent and Bond Streets. British designers include Digby Morton, Hartnell, Hardy Amies, Worth, and Charles Creed. Liberty’s for silk .vinfs, Foyle’s for books. Shops are closed Saturday afternoons.
Jo 'Füioiy. ,..h, Anderson’s, George Street, for tweeds, tartans and Highland. ou:	Han !*on and Inches for Scottish silver craft.
Tensmkt, Triples Strei ¿ souvenirs. George Cockburn, Shandwick Place fo arti.Jue jev.c a id silver. McCalls, Lothian Road, for CGtic	and o souvenirs. City Glass Co., for old glass.
Roman > and F aterse X< ¡ ’weeds, i . mns, cashmeres and ladies’ kmtw Jer-i»ers is th • ¿ir-esí departir, t store.
- SP^CT^v'C-’R SPí 'í' - í, .. , Horse r a. mg goes on all year in England. the flat y ing season lasts from nlarci :o December when the steeplechasing nd hi-iijTt: rarr.g begir; The ' . t week in June is Derby Week,	copie come from miles árctico V see this world-
famous r re, :-n 1 gypsies camp on Eps^pi Dr ¿wing the whole event a • ¿mwe, . ir. It is one of tne gayest and rr-y., esf'ng of events.
A visit to d’s Cricket Ground in Lendr ’■ sen ’’07 Rugby is mainly a un» ersity . 'H, not so popular as soccer. jiggest soccer c ent V; England • the Cup Final, Hayed at t bley in April ir ea.vi.y Oth. major sports events in En „1 <j e the vorld b.ampiqnshi.; tennis matches at Wimbj don in f	ring
.uno and July, .he Brit; ih Amateur and British Op . \	urna-
rneats in May and July, respectively, and the Oxford ^	brat
a-'r on the- fhaires in M^rch or early April.
} . Scot’and, at ihe Highland games, which brine the together
;uid we 1 worth seeing, you see hut ling contest ., vrtsts j, Scottish Other snectator sports include golf tour.aments, national ■■f ir, . „Tonal; squash m^t'hes, association foe p hi, rugby, ft o.ug, ch, ing regattas bowl: it. ,hatches, horse racinj,
J i j-iiS. . i’here l. a »vide variety of interests for the sp 1., n r Great Bi.it.ain. Here are some of the world’s best golf .0* scs. iNjear London is the futnots Sunniigdale coura.. Wes' m d! in Devon. Hoykks near LlverpoQl and the courses at. Sand . , 1 Kent, to mmuion a Lw, arc. aH excellent. In Scotland are c Andrew’s Old C vurse Troon, Turnberry, Gientagles, ne ar Hrling, Cat oustie, Noah Berwick -nd the Old PresttVIck course wL. re you ca.ti reserve Hubs in advance for $3. Some other ve ry fine . >ursy ii Scotland within 40 mile ■ of Edinburgh include" Gull?tie, Jicrtoi. iah "« Midlothian, and Muirfieldi, ore of the oldest ;nd . cost illustrious cour-ec An open