letter from your club at home will get you temporary membership.
You’ll find tennis all over Great Britain. The grass courts are all good. A week-end visit is almost sure to include some tennis; the sport is nationally popular. Britain is also fine for fishing. Streams such as the Itchen, Frome and Axe have made English trout fishing famous. The dry-fly fishing here ranks with the best in the world. The moor country in western England offers the wet-fly fisherman excellent casting for salmon and trout. Fishing is also marvelous all over Scotland. The salmon fishing is world famous, but most of the salmon rivers are privately owned. It is possible to rent a boat for a month or a season. Salmon fishing is excellent in the Highlands and on the east coast. For brown-trout fishing there are innumerable hotels which own fishing streams for their guests. Tber-ff are boats and guides available. For full information: ■ Srotiai.d fc-Fishing,” published by the Scottish Tourist Boa- L
There’s good hunting in Britain for 4 • hare ai>1 •: i- ny kind:, of game, including pheasant, partridge,' wi	#?ese and d ;- k Game
licenses cost $8.50 a season 'or as uaav.y'- as yo-\ vaf. and a hunting permit, or $5.60 and . 12.80 for .	periods Mo , oi the
shooting in Scotland is dc... on private n . erves. However, it is possible for the visitor hi r a moor ioi H very • a, or mere modestly, to make ar~* 'omefus for shooting through C. W. Ingram, 90 Princes Street; T" tValkr % Fras-r an-.i Mfc'el, 5s Castle Street, Edinburgh. Pheasr J'ciober-i’anuary, wild duck, Septt.r.ber-February; grouse, August-1*». - -nr; pa: (ridge, Septemb'er-JanuaHy-
Britain is wc T fc- the hiker and bicycling - • 'hnsias . There is a wiT .et> 1 -dscape and terrain ¡¡rat can • r covered in a short ti t he Louth Hostel movement ' . very pabular in the British '■ es There a h more than 500 iostel“ offering low-cost accorr G • r for hirers and cyclists
T	... lue National ThGin? Com chj and the Royal
ShakeVwC- iipany offer some of tf best thea , icG entertainment found	You’ll want ip check whales playing' in the fam/.i.s
West En	ers. London offers a great varety of plays arid n-iatai
comedies .	. .¿h the year. Besides new plays, there are . ' tys
revivals of dftake; eare and the classics. You buy jour pf; grui Ir ticket: are cheap, ranging from 35(1 to $4.20 for the be* t. Sen' a. ; o ho ' . *t is best tc ride when you first .dm what yotfar?	•
see . et seats in advance. You’ll want V .pend , few eye.rv ,.s .t the : halls, toe. The Palladium is the horr •* of vau ‘eviMe. ' • ai ,o parri^ • on musi ." heater time C 7:30 or 8 r.M.
In t gh there are two theaters for excellent touring companies ad casior al premieres, the most interesting p-rds are given at the ’ He; -ational Music and Drama Festival. It was hem: ■ hat Beyond ..he fringe iginated. Glasgow is also well equipped to cater to the thealergo ~.
TIME, • N an Vi London is 7 a.m. in New York
TIPPING"., . • The 10 to 15% rale applies at restaurants. A hotels divide 10 ?	1 ^% among ‘hose Lrdrig persona! service, in 'll cases