and Edinburgh. Tweed jackets worn with gray flannel slacks are good in the country. A raincoat is definitely a must all year round for both men and women. These suggestions are primarily for a summer wardrobe. If you are going in the winter, plan to wear heavier indoor and lighter outdoor clothes than you would in the United States.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING. . .
London. .. What you see in London is largely up to you. You can do the museums and art galleries, you can wander around the various neighborhoods which make up the second-largest city in the world, you can go down to the “City,” you can poke around Soho and Chelsea. But here are a few musts on anyone’s list. Westminster Abbey comes first. This old English building is England itself. Here is where the sovereigns of Great Britain have been crowned for centuries. Here is where royalty is wed, and many of h ’ great of England are buried in the Abbey. The history of the English people can be read in these memorials.	v ,	• , •	,	- . ,
You can’t miss Big Ben at Westrmnste; o: Eros on his Piccadilly fountain. The British Museum u .rust eve 1 if you aren’t a museum-goer. The Houses of Parliai ren; are near me Abbey Built in :°40, they are pseudo-Gothic with . Victorian overtone,. History- is m de here and you may be in oh it's making t - obtaining passes to the debates in the House of Commons (by application to the Admission order office). There are guided tours available on Saturday - and certain other days in summer, 10 a.m',-4:30 m i., for which it is not iccessary to make advance booking arrangements.
Go to the 1 o ver or Lo. ton, scene of some of the darkest chapters in English history. It is now a museum and holds the Crown Jewels and other ticasun:’. Within its walls is the beautiful little chapel of St. John, a pefjei; example of Norman archi. ,.ct re. Take a dry to see this v--; building w'ligh has stood since the ti	of William tne Conqueror. And. don’t niss St. Pauls' Cathedn	which was built by
Chrt 'V: ’ e.'. Vren. The graceful enaissance re. has been a land-. r-ore than two eniuries.
1-Take i. tus to the ‘City,’* the f lancial	of Englaii'u Here
you w: ? ’md “The Old Lady of ThVeadneedlc -treet” (Bank A -island), JL.ovd’s, the Tern* e, Lincoln’s Inn an Gray’s Inn dim is v here y< 1 find the ancient Cheshire Cheese pun in Fleet S ■ i.
Go to viarbie Arch on Sundays arid h ir lapbox orators. Watch the riders aiong Rotte Row, go to the wo.lu-f: ous’ . 'ndo: Zoo i Regents Park Take a look t Mrne. Ttrsaudk Waxworks. Make a point of see: g the changing ‘of the guard at Buckingham o. St J: '"¡es’s ’"'■daces. Take a i;v k at one of the most charming churches to be seen ai./where, St. Mar-, n-ic-the-Fields in Trafalgar Square, go if. St. james’s P- rk off the Mall and watch the ducks. You cab do all this by sightseei .g b- s of just by meandering. A wonderful way to see London is to ake he No. :1 bus, which wanders over a'huge teriitor.. Travel b\ inder ground (subway). It is an interesting experience.
A half ho-’ - by suburban electric from the center of London is