bellboys, doormen and taximen are tipped extra (a shilling per bag for one or two pieces, 6d each if several small pieces). Tip only 6d (7tf) for a fare of 2/6d (35d), plus 3d for each l/6d of fare above 2/6d. Don’t overtip.
TRANSPORTATION . . . London is a spread-out city. It will be worth your while to study the train and subway systems to various parts of it. They are good and not expensive. In both England and Scotland there are plenty of buses. Taxis are available at all times and they are reasonable. There is excellent train and plane service all over Britain. Self-drive cars are also available at an average charge of $7.70 per day, allowing 60 miles. Excess mileage is charged at the rate of 4 cents per mile. Chauffeur-driven services are available in most towns for 21 cents per mile upwards, according to the type of car.
WATT'? u- water is safe to drink throughout the British Isles.
‘WU.ki ’	. There’s no purchase tax for visitors on
pm chases wcrtn 55 ($. -t :	more if they’re delivered to the ship or
plane or shipped home' direct
London is the Pa; is F men’s pis mil . British tailors are the best in the world; Cu tom-made clothes are r jeh cheaper than in American shops. A beautiful Scotch tweed sj.it costs about $100, compared with $250 in New York. WJnderidlly soft camel’s hair coats can be bought for about 'he same price. Though oOme British tailors don’t do as good a ob on women’s suits, you may wish to buy a length of tweed or woolen material tc hay.- made up at home. Handmade shoes cost around $25 a pair. They we <• fo ;ver, too. The British make wonderful raincoats, including the famous Bo berr's that are popular with both 'Tien and women. Sweaters, isooks and r :arfs in lovely soft wool a-.d cashmere are also relative!; inexpensive. Fine umbrellas, long a E tisii speciality, are for sale at ' ery rat- onable prices. Lovely old I	lish silver sells at a Taction cT it !c in
America. Buy Belf	linen and ice-like porcelain fr ••; >\or. tern
Ireland. Fine edit	gfass are a good b. ty but fragil- ..o:
I‘t Scotland, t teds, of course, tart uRS, wo T.rs . ^ x gooT	ilver jewehy, . e kilt, if ou insist, and especiallyris and
Mbbi!a> tweeds. Casl teres, too. are wonde Til.
cT TO WEAR. . . Even in the mio>ummcr he ni{. s in Erg-land and Scotia*, d can get a- 'old as October weather. E uy degre j *.s 'O” derc A a< unusual!. warm day n Londo Don't crowd your luggage will jight cotton or tropical v rsted clothes, unless su are oing to warn :r climates. A simple woo! su. and lightweig,.,. wool dresses and some cottons wid fid a worn a daytin e need- in Lip cities. .Black cocktail dresses or dressy suit.> are l>est after 5 r x . The -ritish wed./ evening clothes much more than we do, jo if \ou plan to go it all gala bring along your formal clothes. A ’ipnlw, ight topcoat and a warm evening wrap are musts. So are comfc tal shoes for sightseeing and hiking. Casual sportswear is corret. in to countrv t/o nen do not usually wear slacks.
Lightweight flannel and worsted suits arc fl ee for men in London