i ;	- -c&
it-.' re.$on is Si (36 rv	>
$%,. ric ■■•' " wic-i a castle ’ich ro.K :t iitV ihe r’ruce defeat ; Englit a’ ;he Cold- Lion '. tel.
E-rqsti SE.jj-r'3 you 30 to Calif ¡der. Here '
... "r a:: stay at the Tr mens Hotel. The in !' •» and Loch Ls. nond, famed in t Vat. in,. is ti scene of Scott’s “Lady of the Lake” ¿ng trip, fre n Calia: her to i och fay to th> nc ihatcM ;d cottages, picturesque ■ Mages, mourn ¿ins .•’litres. M is ' er old, very beam iul.
Fhe' IS ’	. The maginary line of c
tere ; an into tC'-st. Mere 'o> s. apuigt t
:aticn betwee
Ayr is a modern seaside resort and is filled with things to interest the devotees of Burns. Hotels are the Station and the County. From Ayr it is possible to make a “Burns” tour of Dumfries (in the south, near England), Thornhill, Cumnock and other points of interest.
Border Country. . . South of Edinburgh is the Border country, the country of Sir Walter Scott. His home at Abbotsford is worth seeing. The ruins of Melrose and Dryburgh Abbeys are nearby. Peebles on the River Tweed is the center of the Border country, a famed holiday area. There is good fishing here. North Berwick, 22 miles east of Edinburgh in East Lothian, has three golf courses and top hotels for the golfer. The Marine Hotel is excellent.
The Island of Arran, picturesque and colorful, lies off the oo»s of Ayrshire in the Firth of Clyde, southwest of Glasgow; jt is :	j,.
20 miles long and is the quinte Glasgow. .. Coming n Scotland’s most impor called the Gatew-transport
" ’ Vv’fi:	■•’liW,
	lit, hi y
	of
	est
	ux ;
■	■•s-
	r-
	P-
	;d id
	the
01	t is
1 d re	ate-
"Vest v ’ f	0,
.1.1 ove .no, th	pot
Bern a .,n	’ay
nke bus ‘o	:3-
1 to bch L.	! M,
h anr erst	' . b
' fhe Iff,; 'Mi
the Lowlands	Hr r.lands of Scotland is drawn between thl
'nth of Clyde	vest \nd the Firth of Tay on the east. Above
this hi s lies th niggv £ 1 iful but often dour couutiy of the Scottish High' nds. ere ;s vb re vou will find Balmoral Castle H .re also is the Isle M Skye ith Dunvegan Castle, the oldest inhabited cam f in I ¡thin; md the ancestor! home of the Clan MacLeod.
Lorn the • f'eM coast, start your tour of the Highlands at Oban (Grt Western, ■•Hexandrh hotels). This is a fine Scottish • resort