How will the company pay for this $270 million worth of planes?
The financing of the jet program will not be an easy task. The primary sources of funds to finance projects of this magnitude include: (1) stockholders’ operating profits retained in the business (approximately 50% of all profits of the company have in the past been reinvested in the business) ; (2) net profits from the sale of obsolete flight equipment; (3) borrowings from banks in the form of term loans (five to seven years) ; (4) long term borrowings from other financial institutions such as insurance companies; (5) sale of some form of equity securities representing increased stockholder investment.
How well we can do our financing of the jet program, in any form, is dependent upon our ability to realize reasonable profits from the operation of the airline. The ability of a company to make profits is the measure of its ability to meet its obligations for principal and interest on borrowings when they become due. In the final analysis, the company’s operating results are dependent entirely upon how well all of us do our jobs, in selling our service to the public and in providing a service which the public will wish to buy, at cost levels which will result in a financially strong and profitable company. Only in this way can the company grow and provide the tools which will permit its employees to prosper.
Will our new ¡ets be able, and permitted, to use present airports?
The two problems with jets of interest to airport managers have been (a) noise, which has drawn complaints from residents of airport areas, and (b) length of runways required. We believe both will shortly be resolved.
The big Pratt and Whitney JT3 and JT4 type engines will be equipped with engine
thrust reverse on both Boeings and Douglasses. This will have an effect similar to reversing the pitch on propellers, and thus apply additional “brakes” to the plane after landing. This will mean safer landings and make it possible for the big jets to fly in and out of most major fields.
As for noise, the several agencies concerned with this problem have announced that encouraging progress has been made. Sound suppressing devices that have already been flown indicate the possibility of pronounced improvement in controlling sound. The objective is to reach a compromise between cost, size and weight of the suppressor and loss of efficiency, while still attaining a noise level acceptable in the areas involved.
There is every reason to believe that this goal will be attained. Boeing recently reported that by this summer its prototype 707 will be fitted with four sound suppression devices that are considered to be the prototype models on production units.
The president of the Air Transport Association of America recently pointed out that all American Flag airlines purchasing jets have stipulated that the engines must be equipped with noise suppressors.
“The expectation is now that the noise of jet engines will be no greater than the noise of today’s big piston-engine types,” he declared.
Will our competitors also be flying ¡ets?
Yes, but not as soon as we will. Most other major airlines have now followed our lead and ordered jet transports in varying numbers. However, Pan American was the first to order jets, and expects to have them in operation first — just as we pioneered flights across the Atlantic, to Latin America, across the Pacific and around the world.
THE
/
s

w
Boeing 707
Douglas DC-8
A.IVIERICA.I\r
WORLD'S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
CZ Lirfe^f)