The advent of the Jets (first on Pan American) means a new era of flying. Here are the answers to some of the questions being asked us by both customers and employees in which we believe all will be interested.
---------- ☆ ----------
What kind and how many jet planes will we be flying?
Pan American has contracted to buy 44 long range four-jet Clippers — 21 Douglas DC-8’s at a cost in excess of $135 million, and 23 Boeing 707 Stratoliners and Intercontinentals at a price of approximately $140 million, all including spares. Engines for both will be Pratt and Whitneys. This procurement program has been termed the “largest and most significant contract in the history of commercial aviation”. It also marked the first purchase of pure jet transports by any U. S. airline, another “first” for Pan American.
What performance is expected of them?
The planes are designed to cruise 575 miles an hour at 30,000 feet, or some 200 miles an hour more than the DC-7C’s, now the top performer in our international fleet. With favorable winds, such as the jet stream, they can reach ground speeds well above that figure.
The Stratoliner 707-121, first to be delivered, will carry 121 passengers in standard configuration, or 143 tourist class. The larger (by over 25 tons) 707-321 Intercontinental, will carry 131 passengers first class or 157 tourist. The DC-8’s will carry 121 passengers with standard seating or 144 tourist class. All will have a range of more than 4,000 miles.
How will the new jet Clippers affect schedules and flying times?
They will greatly reduce scheduled flight times throughout the world. For not only are they inherently much faster, but they will be operated with aids that will minimize weather delays and permit seeking the most favorable wind conditions. Few cities of the world will be more than a half day away from the U. S. by Pan Am Jet Clipper. The 707 Intercontinental could fly around the world in 40 hours flying time, needing only five stops for refueling. A 707 prototype recently set a new passenger flight record of three hours and 48 minutes between Seattle and Baltimore — an average of 612 m.p.h., with ground speeds at times exceeding the speed of sound — 658 m.p.h. at 31,000 feet.
When they go into service scheduled flying time from New York to Paris (3,750 miles) will drop from 11 hours and 25 minutes to 6 hours and 35 minutes, and other flights will speed up accordingly. From Chicago to London will take only 7 hours, 15 minutes; Tokyo to Seattle, 8 hours, 32 minués ; and New York to Buenos Aires, 11 hours, 15 minutes.
What will the advent of jets mean in terms of employment and job security?
They should have a favorable effect. We confidently expect that the improved service, faster flying time between points and the greater comfort of jet flying will result in sizeable growth of passenger miles flown by airlines as a whole. It is up to all of us to make certain Pan American gets its share of this new business to insure the steady growth of our company which will result in more jobs and will make Pan Am an even better place to work.
Historically, the introduction of major new technological developments has always
been greeted with the fear that machines will replace people and reduce the number of jobs —and just the opposite has occurred. This was true in the 19th Century, when new textile machinery came on the industrial scene, later when the automobile replaced the horse and buggy, and in more recent times when the rolling mill was introduced to the steel industry. In every case, of course, the technical and mechanical improvements have actually contributed to an expanding market and created more and better jobs. We are confident this will be true with the jets, not only in our own company but also in the industry generally.
When will these planes go into service?
Deliveries of the first licensed 707 Jet Stratoliners will begin in December of 1958, and of the 707 Intercontinentals in August, 1959. The first licensed DC-8’s will be turned over in December, 1959. All 44 are expected to be in service during 1960. We hope to integrate each into the flight schedules very soon after delivery. Jets can be expected to be in service on all three divisions during 1959, and a substantial number of flights per week should be jet flights by that summer.
When will personnel be trained to the new requirements of their jobs under jet operation?
Much of this training is already underway. For instance, Atlantic Division people are simulating a jet flight to Europe every day—with meteorologists, dispatchers, schedulers, etc., learning just what is required. Other training will be synchronized during the next 18 months, so that by the time the first jet goes into service, everyone has been thoroughly trained in his part of the operation. To date the only airline pilot checked out on a U. S. jet transport is a PAA pilot who got his type rating on a Boeing 707 in March.