POSITIONS AT PAN AMERICAN BUILDING NEW YORK CITY
Interested applicants should apply to:
Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Personnel Office
Pan Am Building
New York, New York 10017
Openings for:
Data Processing	Administrative Assistants
IBM Programming Sales Representatives Research	Engineers
are occasionally available. We accept applications for future possibilities. Clerical positions cover various fields such as Supply, Accounting, etc. Many include typing and filing duties.
Messenger
A High School Diploma is the basic requirement.
Receptionist
The opportunities are very limited. A pleasing personality and a neat appearance are the basic essentials. Typing is required for most positions.
Telephone Operator
Some locations require multiple board experience and others a “Centrex Console” background. There are night and day positions.
Office Machine Operator
Clerks—File, Supply, Accounting, Statistical
A High School diploma is the basic requirement for most filing positions. Occasionally special abilities are required for clerical work, such as typing and filing.
Administrative or Executive
Positions in personnel, public relations, advertising, sales promotion, accounting and other fields are occasionally open, but because of our policy of promotion the opportunities are limited. Experience and educational background suitable to the opening are general requirements.
Sales Management Training Program
(There are very few vacancies and the competition is keen.) Applicant should be a college graduate, single, in excellent health, personable, mature, versatile and aggressive, have demonstrated ability to speak forcefully and well and possess above average intellectual curiosity. Satisfactory completion of Company physical and aptitude tests are required. Willingness to relocate and completion of Military Service are mandatory. Forward application or personal history to:
Sales Manager — North America Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Pan Am Building
New York, New York 10017
Occasionally there are positions for machine operators experienced on Comptometers, Calculators, and similar office machines.
2