POSITIONS AT JOHN F. KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
Interested applicants should apply to:
Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Employment Office
Hangar 14, John F. Kennedy International Airport Jamaica, N. Y. 11430
Operations Representative
Vacancies are limited. Applicants must be college graduates, mature and personable. Ability to speak a foreign language is preferred. Willingness to relocate in the United States or at various foreign stations is required and applicants must demonstrate ability for handling personnel in a supervisory capacity, acting as liaison between management and staff. Shift work.
Engineer
Occasional vacancies occur for aeronautical, mechanical, and electrical engineers. Appropriate degree is required.
Architectural and Mechanical Draftsman
Requires architectural background and mechanical drawing equivalent to four years of college. Must be able to prepare plans according to company procedures or from design sketches. Initiative is required in devising new plans. Vacancies are limited.
Other administrative and executive positions are extremely limited and are usually filled by promotion.
Traffic Representative and Ground Hostess
Two years of college plus fluency in a foreign language are required. The representative handles passenger ticketing and information. He or she must be capable of greeting the public courteously and efficiently and must be personable, mature and well-groomed. Shift work.
Aircraft and Crew Scheduling Clerks
Two years of college is preferred. The scheduling clerks determine and keep records of availability status of flight crews and aircraft and keep all concerned notified of their schedules and related changes. Shift work.
Teletype Operator
Requires teletype training or one year experience. Minimum speed is 45 words per minute. Shift work.
Openings for:
Receptionist	Stenographer
Messenger	Secretary
File Clerk	Telephone Operator
are sometimes available and are as described on previous pages.
Aircraft Serviceman
Must have two or more years engine and airframe overhaul experience. A & P licenses are preferred. Rotating shift work.
Electrical Mechanics
Requires three or four years experience on aircraft electrical systems and wiring overhaul and repair. Shift work.
Radio Mechanics
A second class FCC radio telephone license is required. Radar endorsement on license is preferred. Shift work.
Openings for
Welders	Sheet Metal Mechanics
Machinists	Spray Painters
are occasionally available. Experience and knowledge of equipment suitable to the position are general requirements.
Cargo Representative
Required to type a minimum of 30 words per minute. Previous experience with import and export tariffs is preferred. New York driver’s license required. Shift work.
Baggage Handlers and Drivers The basic requirements are a high school diploma and a New York driver’s license. Occasionally a chauffeur’s #1 or #2 license is required. Experience in fork lift operation is beneficial. Shift work.
Stock Clerk
Must be a high school graduate with one or more years supply experience. Mechanical background is helpful. Shift work.
Our Miami and San Francisco facilities have similar positions available from time to time. Interested applicants should apply directly to:
Pan American World Airways, Inc. Personnel Department International Airport San Francisco, California 94128 OR
Pan American World Airways, Inc. Employment Supervisor Pan Am Building Miami, Florida 33159