Typist
Accountant
Three years toward a college degree in accounting, or the equivalent in experience, is required for Junior Accountants. Senior Accountant positions are usually filled from within the Company. Occasionally, there are openings for travelling Auditors in which advanced educational and business experience and sometimes fluency in a foreign language is expected.
Typists are required to have a speed of at least 45 words per minute for a beginner and Production Typists require speeds of 60 words per minute.
IBM Key Punch Operator
Applicants must be able to pass a prescribed test on the equipment used. There are day and night shifts. Employees assigned to afternoon and night shifts receive a salary differential.
Stenographer
The dictation speed ranges from 85 to 100 words per minute, and the typing is at least 60 words per minute. Experience requirements vary from 0 to 2 years and satisfactory performance on all qualifying tests is a prerequisite.
Secretary
Secretaries are graded according to ability, skills and experience. There are various grades of secretaries who are normally promoted from within the Company. The required rate of dictation is at least 90 words per minute, with typing speeds relatively scaled. Some secretarial openings require the use of Dictaphone equipment. Frequently, there are openings for utilization of Spanish, French or German bi-lingual secretaries. Many of our offices are equipped with electric (regular or executive) typewriters. Pay scales vary according to grade and responsibility involved. Tests (typing and shorthand) are given once a candidate is considered for a vacancy to prove elegibility.
Buyer
Three to five years buying experience is required. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge of sources of supply and of the products they buy, plus a knowledge of related purchasing activities.
Reservations Agent—Sales Agent
A college degree is preferred. Applicants for this position must be able to work “around the clock” shifts. A good speaking voice, salesmanship, and a neat appearance are important. For the majority of openings, a knowledge of foreign language is preferred.
