General Information
Reservations should be made as early as possible to ensure confirmation on the tour of your choice. A deposit of $50.00 per person is required at the time of booking. These payments may be made with Pan Am Credit Travel Plan, Universal Air Travel Plan, American Express. Diners (also Torch Club), Master Charge, BankAmericard (Visa) or Carte Blanche. Balance is due 30 days prior to departure. Reservations made within 30 days of departure must be paid in full upon confirmation. Tours not paid in full by 30 days prior to departure are subject to cancellation without notice.
Final Payment is due 30 days prior to departure of the tour.
Cancellations and Refunds. Cancellations received up to 30 days prior to departure will be refunded in full. Cancellations received after that period are subject to a late cancellation fee of $20 per person to cover administrative and handling costs. This fee is non-refundable for any reason, including sickness or other emergency. Additional late cancellation charges may be levied as required to cover charges and penalties as imposed by purveyors of services and hotels. Changes in departure date or hotel accommodations received within 30 days of departure are subject to the same penalties described above.
Refund of Unused Tour Arrangements. Unused hotel accommodations or any other unused service or feature of any tour are not refundable nor exchangeable for other accommodations, services or features. All refund claims must be submitted within 60 days of completion of the tour.
Air Transportation. Tour participants will travel by regularly scheduled Pan Am economy class jet services. The services of other scheduled airlines may be used for flights within the USA.
Hotels. Tour costs are based on two persons sharing a twin-bedded room with private bath or shower in the category selected. A limited number of single rooms is available at the supplement shown for each tour. Triple room accommodations are based on a twin-bedded room with a folding or roll-away bed for the third person. The right is reserved to substitute hotels of similar or higher category to those shown in the brochure should circumstances make it necessary. Check-out is noon-time in most hotels. Tour participants arriving on early morning flights may therefore be obliged to wait until their rooms have been
vacated by the previous occupant. Hotels will do their best to get you settled as soon as possible and your understanding of the situation is appreciated.
Taxes. Hotel service charges and taxes are included throughout.
Baggage. Free baggage allowance is 2 bags per person between the Mainland and the Islands as well as during Interisland travel. Hand baggage is the responsibility of the tour member at all times. Baggage is at “owner’s risk” throughout the tour unless properly insured. We recommend insurance, which may be obtained from your travel agent.
Porters’ Tips. Tips to porters for baggage are included in the tour prices.
Hosts and Escorts. Pan Am’s World Host will be on hand in Waikiki to assist all tour members.
All tours to the Neighbor Islands, except the “Island Breakaways” will be accompanied by a full time professional Pan Am’s World Escort when the group size is 15 or more members.
Sightseeing. Indicated in each itinerary, including entrance fees where applicable, and the services of an English-speaking guide.
Local Host Service will be provided in each city.
Meals are not included unless specifically indicated in the tour copy pertaining to each itinerary.
Car Rentals. The car is fully insured against third person liability, fire and theft. The renter is liable for collision damage up to $100 and full collision coverage is available at the time of rental. Minimum renting age is 21 years and maximum is 70 years. Not included are gasoline, tolls, parking fees or any other item not specifically mentioned as being included.
All Fares and Prices are in effect as of July 15, 1978 and are subject to change without notice.
Validity of this brochure is from January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1979.
Not Included in the Cost of the Tour. Meals not specifically mentioned, beverages, wines, liquors, mineral water, porters’ tips for more than two bags, laundry, telephone calls, room service or any other items of a personal nature, any items
not specified in the itineraries and tips for local hosts/escorts and driver/guides serving you.
Responsibility. Pan American World Airways, Inc. and/or its agents assume no responsibility or liability in connection with the services of any train, vessel, carriage, aircraft, motor or other conveyance which may be use wholly or in part, in the performance of their duty to the passengers, neither will they be responsible for any act, error, or omission, or for any injury, loss, accident, delay or irregularity, which may be occasioned by reason of any defect in any vehicle, or through neglect or default of any company or person engaged in conveying the passenger; or for any hotel proprietor, or for any other person, engaged in carrying out the purpose for which tickets or coupons are issued. In the event it becomes necessary or advisable for the comfort or well being of the passengers, or for any reason whatsoever, to alter the itinerary or arrangements, such alterations may be made without penalty to the tour operators. Additional expenses, if any, shall be borne by the passengers. The right is reserved to withdraw any or all tours should conditions warrant, also to decline to accept or retain any passenger as a member of a tour. In such instances full or equitable amount will be refunded, but this amount shall not exceed the amount paid by the passengers. No refund can be made for any feature of the program not used by the passenger during operation of the tour.
The sole responsibility of any airline used in any tour is limited to that set out in the passenger contract evidenced by the ticket. Airlines and other carriers are not responsible for any act, omission, or event during the time passengers are not on board their planes or conveyances. Similar responsibility as noted above applies to all types of carriers, including car rental companies. In addition to Pan American World Airways, the services of any IATA and ATC carrier may be used in connection with these tours.
Photographs. Cover: Magic of Hawaii Credit: The Image Bank — J. Barry O’Rourke. Places pictured are in the geographical area but may not be included in specific tours described herein.
Travel Industry Act of Ontario Registration Number 1412996.
Air fares quoted in this book are subject to change.
Rely on You r Travel Agent
When you plan your Pan Am’s World trip you should rely on your Travel Agent. His unique professional experience will help save you vacation time and money.
Your Travel Agent can help you in a variety of ways. With first hand knowledge he can give you first-rate advice on what to see, where to go and which Pan Am’s World tour you might enjoy most. What’s more, he can tell you what to pack, what local customs are, and all the other insider’s information that can turn a vacation into a pleasantly memorable experience.
Your Travel Agent can take care of all the details. And best of all, with our PANAMAC computer and other electronic communications systems, your Travel Agent can confirm tour reservations instantly.
Consult An Expert—Your Travel Agent.
Printed in U.S.A.