This Year You Can Vacation in
Yes, this year you can enjoy a real visit in Israel even if you’ve only a few weeks. And stop over enroute in Europe and the Near East, too, if you wish. How? By taking advantage of the speedy and dependable air transportation of Pan American World Airways.
You leave New York aboard a Pan American Clipper — choosing either a luxurious lst-class service or the Rainbow, Pan American’s popular, money-saving
tourist service. One great advantage is the wide choice of routings. For example, you can head for Europe and Israel via the London or Paris Gateways, then return through Pan American’s southern European Gateway, Lisbon and the Azores.
Either way, going or coming, you’ll be able to do Europe on the way. Pan American serves 23 cities throughout the Continent and
makes connections at London, Paris, Rome and Istanbul with El A1 Israel Airlines services to and from Israel.
You’ve a Choice of Service and Equipment
For the Atlantic crossing, Pan American offers three types of service. There’s the low-cost Rainbow tourist service . . . the speed and comfort of air travel; new specially-designed Douglas Super-6 Clippers; and the same matchless experience that stands behind all other Pan American flights — yet for the lowest transatlantic fares ever on a scheduled airline.
Giant first-class Super-6 Clippers fly the Mid-Atlantic route through the Azores and on to Rome where connections are made with El A1 for Israel.
Then there’s the luxurious first-class service at regular fare—The President
— to London or to Paris and Rome. Here is the spaciousness of the famous Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers with their lower deck lounges, superb food by Maxim’s of Paris, and meticulous cabin attendance.
Finally, for the few who demand the very finest, there’s the extra-fare deluxe President Special.
Take Advantage of the Tours and Thrift Season Fares
There are Inclusive Cost Tours to Israel and Europe? that help you get thé most travel for the money. These itineraries can be used as planned or they can be changed to suit your own particular plans. And don’t forget that you can save still more by traveling during the Fall and Winter “Thrift” Season.
ISRAEL
and Have Time for Europe, Too