celsior, Lancaster, Miramar, Ouro Verde, Olinda and California all enjoy a magnificent view of the ocean. The Copacabana Palace has a swimming pool and night club. The Excelsior and Miramar have excellent restaurants. The “Studium” in the Excelsior is very popular for late dinner and dancing. The Gloria, closer to town, best of the older hotels, has been thoroughly modernized with air conditioning. It also has a pool. The view of Rio’s harbor from the Gloria is magnificent. Single rates about $8 to $13; doubles $8 to $26, European Plan. Other hotels in Rio are the Serrador, Ambassador, Guanabara Palace and San Francisco. Most luxurious hotels in Sâo Paulo are the Jaragud and Othon Palace. Rates from $8 with breakfast. Other good hotels are the Excelsior, Comodoro, Maraba, Terminus, Florida, Danubio, Lord Palace, Principe and Sâo Paulo.
ARTS... The Museum of the Indian, located in front of Gate No. 15 of the Maracana Stadium, is the newest and most modern museum in Rio. It consists of a series of exposions, -vreeably organized about different themes of the life of Brazil, m Indians. The National Museum in Rio’s Quinta da Boa Vista Park, car of the oldest in Brazil and once the residence o' Dont Ped-o Î r od Dom Pedro II, has interesting collections of m ntnlogy and ethnography. Natural Historic Museum, on Praça Marc :r.ti Ancora has a ; uperb collection of historical objects, sii	r ofce’ain,	¿ratifigs-, etc.
National Museum of Fine Arts, Aver Id.. Vtr Pianco, houses collections of old paintings and sculpture an«’- s.-sc has a gallery showing contemporary artists. The Museum of M idem Art exhibits modern painting and sculpture. Museum of Historical and Geographic al Insrluie, Praça Mahatma Gandhi, has intemripy collections from the period of the monarchy. In Sâo Paulo see the Ipiranga Museum fov historical objects, and the excellent Museum of Modem rt.
BALLET... For? ,.i • rd cal ballet comp nies appear ai the Teatro Municipal di the wMter : -c i (May to August).
BANKS. . . In I *-'.-TS?o Pauhr. : rst National City Bank of New York, First Nations’ Bàn, cf Boston, Roy d Bank of Canada. American Express Co., Rti4 Mex,co 74, Rio.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS... New Yea r s Day; 1 mary 6, Epiphany; pre-T • ic “ carniv.f Holy Week; April 21, Tirade?, i j, May 1, Labor Day; Ccry'.. Christ;; Tune 29, St "eter’s Day; Se tr-nbe 7, Independence Day. •'•-fovîrélîër 1 and 7, AU daints and All Set's Day.?; November 15, Rep’ lit. Day; Christmas
The Carnival 'ti Rio is one of the gayest in the world. / ¡1 business stops for 3 days. There are costume bulls, among them try. famous Copacabana Palace ad Municipal Theat er Ball. The re are y y .> gala;; at clubs, and prwd'è homes, dancing in iHfe wl	:• îi» • es
fireworks, music, pre.ty girls and everythin? it taka? to mt a car nival. It's always heM just before Leu .
CIO' JTETTEè AND TOBACCi- . . Bra dlLm cigars irc^Mom the wor> Us finest re 1 cigars. Suerdkh. Co. makes the best. ■-cigarette1, cost about 3 *'mes inuc!,'tvi idea; breads.
CLir .» l, . T . always su amer in. Rio. Du mg 'b-;s wriDr sea-