Another popular resort nearby is Terezopolis, which is about IV2 hours from Rio by a new scenic highway. Best hotels there are Fazenda da Paz and Pensao Pinheiros.
Sao Paulo. . . South of Rio is Sao Paulo, the great industrial city of Brazil. It can be reached in 1 hour by air, or 7 hours by bus. Travel agents will arrange sightseeing tours, and you’ll be fascinated with all the new, beautiful modern buildings. The famous Snake Institute Bu-tantan is a leader in antibiotic reasearch, and you can watch the extraction of venom from snakes’ fangs. Also interesting is the permanent industrial exhibition at Parque Ibirapuera.
Santos. .. Only an hour south of Sao Paulo is Santos, the world’s largest coffee port. This is a resort center with beaches and excursions to nearby mountains. The Parque Balneario and the Atlantic are good hotels. See the orchidarium and Guaruja across the bay. The drive or cog railway trip from Sao Paulo to Santos is exciting. Buses run very frequently between the two points; the ride takes about an hour. Iguassu Falls. .. On the Argentine border is one of the* sights
nr^fl/4 TUav oon Vmj roooliprl in oKmif 7 Vir lire * nlonA frrim
of the world. They can be reached in about Sao Paulo. Larger than Niagara, they are 7 away are the falls of Sete Quedas (more on Argentina. See also under Paraguay. zilian side is first class.
Belo Horizonte. . . Capital of the r.tai of steel and mining industries. Single to $10. From the city, take the day-lo _ colonial art and architecture, the town tional monument and is famed f'
Little Cripple,” a genius of the ’ate Recife.. . “The Veni by numerous graceful >• is rich in magnificent Grande.
Belem . . . T Amazon, way n movie. Hotel G)
Manaus. . . off the tourist
Panair do Bras: '	’ if» s r
of the jungle has an asta river trips, buy an Amazono are
organize-..
and F.•	,
$5 sm.-'ic) w
hours plane from
erv/stvs: crosse^ t 'i 535 and uararapes,
■uffie routh •:>£ thè i-;;, an adven*. : : ino i
fc r som* ihing difieren; noni Rio nd Beimi via -) thè Amazon in thè /icari ■ i ot 50 years ago, Mai.PnS ul L>s nistory. You '-»n .i:e -'f‘s great game n \ and w doli . 11 ■* Hotel ,i aondi ;one*’. 'ì a.ts osi- -.ir:g "aii ’ fish>v ave - fíp té’: :sw ICi.
pon )OUt