MADE A
Your land travel in Europe will combine the best available services of famous "name” express trains, channel and lake steamers, and comfortable long-distance motor coaches. Each type has been selected to provide you with more than the means of getting from one place to another but a vantage point from which to see the countryside and other scenic features of the routes traveled.
When you transfer ... at city airport terminals, at other transportation terminals, at hotels . . . there’s always a friendly representative on hand to ensure safe handling of your baggage, to cope with any local regulations, to speed you on your way. They spare you any arguments with porters and drivers who speak no English—and whose courtesy often is limited.
ON THE GROUND
Today, carefree travel means skillful planning and arrangements made in advance by experts. The land arrangements of the tours suggested in this book are made by Exprinter Travel Service who are experts in this field and act as the special representatives of your Travel Agent. The selection of EXPRINTER provides your Travel Agent with a noncompetitive organization with 59 years of experience in the European field and its own offices .at key points not only in Europe (Havas-Exprinter) but throughout South America (Exprinter S.A.).
LET YOUR
BE YOUR LEADING MAN
Of course, you could plan your own European itinerary. But why try . . . particularly when all the experience and travel wisdom of your travel agent is yours just for the asking. Both he and his overseas representatives will see to it that you have all the fun and none of the bother. Your stop-overs and side trips are all pre-arranged . . . your hotel, train, car and boat reservations where needed are all booked for you. So, don’t be bashful about asking the man who knows . . . your Travel Agent.
7raid
AIR TRANSPORTATION-between New York and European cities specified in comfortable lounge chair of new DC-6B “Tourist Clipper.”*
LAND PORTION (Standard Travel)
All rates are based on two persons or more travelling together. Rates will be submitted on request for persons travelling alone. Rates shown on main spread are for Standard Travel. See below for Superior Travel rates.
LAND TRANSPORTATION-For Standard Travel: basis second class rail (or its equivalent) and first class river, lake, or channel steamers, and pull-man motor travel. Seat reservations where necessary.
HOTELS—Similar to those shown on main spread. For Standard Travel: basis twin-bedded rooms with running water at comfortable hotels. MEALS—Basis Continental breakfast at all hotels.
SIGHTSEEING—By motor, or other conveyance according to local circumstances, including the services of an English-speaking guide, admission to museums and monuments.
TRANSFERS—Covering one average size suitcase between city air terminal or rail terminal and hotels or vice-versa. Overnight bags or extra luggage will be handled at owner’s expense.
GRATUITIES AND TAXES—To hotel servants, except in Great Britain. Local or government taxes on hotel services or land transportation provided above.
LAND PORTION (Superior Travel)
All itineraries can be operated with “Superior accommodations, namely, room with private bath at First Class hotels similar to those shown on main spread; first class rail instead of second class rail.
Cruise PTX-1 Departures May 1 through to October 31..........$631
Departure November 1 through to March 23...... 557
Cruise PTX-2 Departures May 1 through to October 31.......... 698
Departures November 1 through to March 19..... 622
Cruise PTX-3 Departures May 1 through to October 31.......... 805
Departures November 1 through to March 17..... 728
Cruise PTX-4 Departures May 1 through to October 31.......... 950
Departures November 1 through to March 10..... 868
Transportation between traveler’s home town and New York; hotel or other services in New York; lunches or dinners at hotels; meals on trains or other European conveyances or during all day excursions; tips in Great Britain; handling of excess baggage and excess weight on planes over 44 lbs.; laundry, valet service, wines and liquors, and other expenses of a purely personal nature.
* Tourist air fares are subject to government approval.
Responsibility
All these Cruises will be carried out under the business management of Exprinter Travel Service, Inc., with offices and representatives throughout Europe.
The management acts as agent for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and other principals. While exercising every care possible, all tickets issued are subject to the terms and conditions under which such owners or contractors operate, for which neither the management nor any affiliated or subsidiary company shall be or become liable or responsible in any way.
The management also reserves the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or en route, or to withdraw any tour. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar and will be lowered or raised in accordance with the values prevailing when you pay the final balance of your tour. Fares are subject to change without notice.
Pan American World Airways
Published by Exprinfer Travel Service, Inc.
Printed in U.S.A.	No. 136—1/52
f ' ' ~ ^ 	 — - ^ Now/ See		
s	u	i
F •r .	:0F	LESS MONEY
[/

XI
ANNOUNCING
1

NEW LOW FARE
TOURIST
CLIPPER
CRUISES
TO
EUROPE

XT
3

4j
JfeiÉÉ!
OFFERED BY
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT