LOWEST AIR FARES EVER TO
(EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1952)
m time... It costs so little... PLAN TO 60 NOW!
No doubt about it, the greatest opportunity to vacation in Europe is here. Choose the tour that fits your time and purse and go. Two weeks vacation is time enough for a European Holiday when you fly by Tourist Clipper*. Ireland, England, France, Germany, Italy, Holland, Scandinavia and Spain are but a few of the countries served by Pan American World Airways.
* Clipper, Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
Low round-trip tourist fares to Europe are an actuality, thanks to the constant struggle of Pan American to reduce fares to a price you can afford.
A whole, bright new world has opened up . . . for now your dream of a lifetime ... a vacation in Europe ... is within your vacation budget as it is for those who have been there before and who will return again and again. The complete economical air cruises described in this folder are examples of what you can do within a limited vacation time.
From the Statue of Liberty to your first view of Europe is just a matter of hour by Pan American Clipper. This sw’ travel way means you’ll enjoy most your vacation time abroad. You will able to see and enjoy more of the countries you visit.
Experienced travelers have found that they get more for their fare when they go by Pan American. They know that Pan American offers far more experience than any other transatlantic airline . . . has made over 38,000 crossings. On the new Tourist Clipper, you will get the same attentive cabin service, the same "crack” flight crews who have helped Pan American achieve and maintain its enviable record. Whether you go during the summer or winter season, your Clipper trip will be smooth for your flight is high above surface weather.
The new DC-6B Tourist Clippers are the only aircraft specially designed and built for overnight Tourist Service to Europe. They are the fastest Clippers ever built. Incorporated in the design of these Clippers are the latest navigational aids and other aeronautical devices, which contribute to dependable flight operations.
Your heated, air-conditioned, pressurized Tourist Clipper cabin assures ground level comfort at high altitude. And there are few seats on the ground as soft and comfortable as the one you will occupy. Attractive, delicious in-flight meals will be available at reasonable rates.
IS JUST
A NEIGHBORLY DISTANCE

BY TOURIST