MEXICO
CRUISE 102 • 10 DAYS OFF THE BEATEN PATH
Daily Departures
1 st day
2nd day
3rd day 4th day
5th day
6th day
For travelers who have more time to explore further or who have enjoyed a holiday in Mexico before, we have planned a special excursion into the byways “off the beaten path."
MEXICO CITY — Leave Mexico City in your private car over the splendid western highway to Morelia, charming provincial city. In the afternoon continue to Patzcuaro in the heart of the legendary Tarascan Lake region.
PARICUTIN VOLCANO — By launch to the fishing village on the picturesque Island of Janitzio, returning to Patzcuaro for the ascent to El Estribo for a panoramic view of the countryside. Continue by motor to Uruapan for a visit to the lacquer shops before starting your trip to the famed Volcano of Paricutin. Horses and guide will be furnished to the nearest point of vantage so as to enjoy the amazing phenomenon of an active volcano.
GUADALAJARA — Still heading westward but nearly 200 miles to the north, we come to Guadalajara, the second largest city in Mexico, famous for tequila, charros, pretty women and music. Visit the glass factory, Cathedral, National Palace, and the nearby potter’s village of Tlaquepaque.
CHAPALA — After breakfast drive to the impressive Falls of Juanacatlan, and on to Lake Chapala for a morning swim. By motor launch to view the residential section and enjoy the unmatched serenity and beauty of this dream lake. GUANAJUATO — Continue by motor to San Juan de, los Lagos and Leon; thence off the beaten path to Guanajuato, home of the Otomi Indians.
7th day SAN MIGUEL ALLENDE-—Visit Guanajuato's famous silver 8th day mines, the Valenciana Church, mortared with powdered silver and Spanish wine, and the Catacombs containing rows of grotesque mummies. After lunch motor to San Miguel Allende, colonial gem founded in the 16th century. Today it is a favorite art center for Americans and Mexicans, You will wish to visit the Plaza Mayor with its Parochial Church, the House of Ignacio Allende, and wander around through crooked streets, climbing the series of stone steps and terraces lined with pastel adobe houses and sumptuous villas.
9th day QUERETARO — Leave for Queretaro, called the “Opal” city because of its famous mines, arriving in time for lunch. In the afternoon visit the “Templo de la Cruz" where Maximilian made his last stand and the hill where he was executed, the magnificent colonial buildings, the museum and the aqueduct.
10th day MEXICO CITY — Via Ixmiquilpan on to the Pan American highway to Mexico City where this unusual excursion terminates upon arrival.
Entertainment — Mexican Style
10