Best Time to Go? Almost Anytime
Remember, seasons in Latin and South America are the opposite of ours, allowing you a change of scene and climate at anytime. So plan on good weather whenever you go. If the cruise you choose features the Chilean and Andes Lakes, you’ll find them at their best from November to April. However, these places are popular with travelers during the other months too.
To Wear While You’re There
For MEXICO CITY, bring the same clothing that you would wear in a temperate zone on sunny days in the late fall. For the cool evening, a light overcoat or wrap is desirable. In TAXCO, MICHOACAN, and other places at lower altitudes than those of Mexico City and vicinity, and at coastal points, lighter clothing will be found convenient, say linens and prints. By all means bring comfortable walking shoes.
For YUCATAN, CENTRAL AMERICA, and the lowlands of COLOMBIA, VENEZUELA and ECUADOR, light summer apparel can be used throughout the year, bearing in mind that warmer garments will come in handy as one gets higher into the mountains.
Summer clothing should be worn in the coast towns of PERU and northern CHILE, but warm clothing will be needed for the cool mountain regions, especially in PERU and BOLIVIA.
"Palm Beach” or similar weight suits and light dresses are in order in the WEST INDIES, the CANAL ZONE, the GUIANAS,
and coastal BRAZIL, including the "BIG RIVER” regions. ARGENTINA, URUGUAY and CHILE compare generally with corresponding parallels in the United States, bearing in mind that the seasons are reversed.
Sport clothes, rubber-soled shoes and white apparel are useful while on a general tour of Latin America, together with a woollen pull-over and a lightweight overcoat. Evening dress is optional. Laundry is done at the larger hotels en route and on shipboard during the air-sea cruises.
Latin Americans, perhaps because of Spanish ancestry, are sticklers for tradition. Also they feel it only polite that visitors observe local customs in dress. Even though you are on a holiday, it’s best for men not to go tieless or women to wear slacks on city streets. After all, you wouldn’t dress that way in New York. But at the resorts, like Acapulco, everyone dresses very informally for all occasions.
7