MEXICO
CRUISE 103 • 16 DAYS IN MEXICO
Daily Departures
1st day MEXICO CITY — Arrive by Pan American World Airways. You will be met and transferred to your hotel.
During your holiday in Mexico, a comprehensive program of sightseeing will be furnished to include the following:
CITY — On one day you will visit many of the artistic and historic sites in Mexico City — the public buildings, the famous murals, the colorful markets, the boulevards, Chapultepec Park. PYRAMIDS —On another day motor over the Pan American highway to San Juan Teotihuacan, the “place where the gods reside,” to view the Pyramids of the Sun and the Moon and the Temple of Quetzalcoatl. Stop briefly at Tenayuca and at the Shrine of Guadalupe. Luncheon included.
FLOATING GARDENS — Sunday is the day for an excursion to world famous Xochimilco, the “Venice of Mexico.” A box luncheon will be enjoyed aboard your boat.
ORIZABA —A three day excursion to the scenic “Mexican Alps” visiting Cholula and Puebla. Continue to Garci-Crespo, famous springs resort near Tehuacan. Travel over a spectacular mountain road into the lovely region of Orizaba visiting Cordoba and the garden spot of Fortin. Return over the thrilling mountain road to Mexico City.
TAXCO — A two day side trip visiting Cuernavaca, the famous resort of princes and notables, and Taxco, picturesque and hospitable little town cradled in the mountains.
ACAPULCO — Four day excursion by air to this resort, known as the “Lost Paradise,” enjoying the famous beaches, deep sea fishing, and the exotic atmosphere of this remote seaport town so reminiscent of the South Seas.
PARICUTIN — Leave Mexico City again, this time motoring over the splendid western highway to Patzcuaro, in the heart of the legendary Tarascan Lake region, for the night. Thence to Uruapan from which point you will start your trip to the famed Volcano of Paricutin. Horses and guide will be furnished to the nearest vantage point. On the third day you will drive via Morelia, charming provincial city, to the Spa of San Jose Purua for a restful night. After a morning swim, return to Mexico City on the fourth day.
16th day MEXICO CITY — Transfer to the terminal for departure to the U. S. A. by air.