GENERAL
INFORMATION
HERE’S WHAT THE CRUISE FARES INCLUDE
(See rate sheet)
Transportation — between all points specified by air, first class rail (parlor car seats and Pullman berths), motor, and lake or river steamers; Air-Sea Cruises are based on first class minimum accommodations on steamer.
Hotels —the best available, basis sharing a twin-bedded room, unless supplement is paid for single rooms. Private bath wherever available.
Meals — three a day in steamers, planes, at hotels, in dining cars, during excursions, or en route, basis plain breakfast, and table d'hote luncheons and dinners, except in Mexico City proper, Havana, Ciudad Trujillo, San Juan, Panama, Rio de Janeiro, and Buenos Aires, where hotels operate only on European plan or where famous restaurants are recommended.
Sightseeing — for all trips specified includes exclusive use of private automobiles, except in Mexico on Cruises 101, 103 and 1 04 or unless otherwise stated, the services of an English-speaking guide or chauffeur, admission to museums, ruins, etc.
Transfers — covering passengers and two pieces of hand luggage between airports, piers, hotels and other points of arrival and departure en route.
Gratuities — service charges on hotel bills are included, except in Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies.
Taxes — cover government charges on hotel services. Where the U. S. transportation tax of 15% applies, it is shown in parentheses on rate sheet.
HERE’S WHAT THEY EXCLUDE
Transportation between traveler’s home town and the Gateway points where Cruises originate and terminate; passport and visa charges; tips to baggage porters at airports, railway stations, and piers; laundry, valet service, wines and liquors, and other expenses of a purely personal nature. Passport and visas — U. S. citizens will need a passport except for Cruises 101, 102, 103, 104, 105 and 106. Tourist cards, visas, and other certificates are required for several countries and your travel agent will assist you with these formalities.
GENERAL CONDITIONS: We act as agents for the various transportation companies, hotels and automobile contractors, and exercise every care possible. We cannot, however, be held responsible for personal injury or loss to passengers’ baggage. We accept no responsibility in connection with the service of any airplane, train, automobile, carriage or other conveyance, which is used in carrying out these tours, nor are we responsible for delay, accident, or loss of personal property or for additional expenses due to war, storm, floods, epidemics, disruption of advertised schedules, or other causes beyond our control, and any such expenses would have to be borne by the passengers. We also reserve the right to make such alterations to the itinerary as may be deemed necessary for the carrying out of the tour either before departure or enroute, or to withdraw any tour. All rates are figured on the present value of foreign currencies in relation to the United States dollar and will be lowered or raised in accordance with the values prevailing when you pay the final balance of your tour. Fares are subject to change without notice.
No. 120 Published by Exprinter Travel Service, Inc.