The Other Americas Friendly, Fascinating
South America, the West Indies, Central America and Mexico — these are the friendly, fascinating “other“ Americas. Nearly always their exotic beauty has been reserved for those who made travel their avocation, who could afford to spend weeks to reach unique points of interest.
Now you can easily see these colorful countries, leisurely visit nation after nation on a Clipper Cruise by Pan American World Airways System. You’ll find in this booklet just the all-expense tour to appeal to you, to make the most of the time you have.
Perhaps you prefer the unique entertainment of great capital cities like Mexico City, Havana, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Santiago, Lima. Then, too, there’s exploring that will live long in your memory . . . ancient Mayan and Incan civilizations, gigantic waterfalls, famous lakes, picturesque Indian villages. And you can “sightsee” in unusual side trips all along your route, driving from place to place in a private car with an intelligent guide to tell you what you want to know. All-expense Clipper Cruises include these and more. Or you might wish to arrange your holiday to include your favorite sports . . . golf, riding, sailing, fishing, or skiing ... at famous shore and mountain resorts.
Your overnight stays are at leading hotels. Usually they are the centers of local social activities. So, if you wish, you may be in the midst of the scintillating after-dark life of a foreign capital without leaving your hotel. Along your route in such places as the Chilean Lake region and Inca Land, hotels are smaller, fare simpler, but you’ll bask in the personalized hospitality you’ll receive.
Choose Your Cruise to Six Pleasure Areas
1	MEXICO AND MAYALAND. Colorful, startling contrasts between remains of Aztec, Toltec and Mayan cultures and modern civilization . . . picturesque Indian customs . . . untamed beauty of jungles and mountains.
2	GARDEN COUNTRIES OF CENTRAL AMERICA. A
wide range of climate and scenery, incredibly lush countryside bursting with exotic blooming plants, people renowned for their friendly hospitality ... all await you here.
5