TRAVEL TIPS
RESERVATIONS/TICKETING FORMALITIES:
If travel is non-business, do not call reservations between the hours of 10 a m. and 3 p.m. (within the U.S. call at night after 7 p.m.). Please be brief. State your name, airline or affiliation and reservation/onload priority (called RAPID code in Pan Am; e.g., S9). This will assist us in handling your needs promptly. If visit to a ticket office is necessary, please avoid the hours from 10 a.m.-3 p.m.
CHECK-IN:
Avoid excess baggage charges. Limit your baggage to amounts authorized. Check in at least one hour prior to departure and have your identification, tickets, and travel documents readily available. This will reduce waiting time.
BOARDING AND SEATING:
As stated before, revenue passengers must «come first. Unless otherwise directed, allow full fare passengers to select seats, board, and deplane before you.
We try very hard to avoid it, but sometimes you will be asked to relinquish a seat (before departure or enroute) or the meal planned for you in deference to a last minute revenue passenger. We realize you will be disappointed but ask your cooperation and understanding. Every measure will be taken to accommodate you. Flight personnel have been instructed to refuse requests from anyone requesting a higher class of service than that assigned. By asking this you put them in a difficult position which you would not like to be in, if the roles were reversed.
Also, please don't enter the galley or monopolize the attention of the Flight Attendants. They are working and don't have the time to “talk shop."
ATTIRE AND CONDUCT GUIDELINES:
We hope you will not be offended by our mentioning attire and personal conduct. Good taste, plain courtesy and common sense—are probably the only guidelines necessary. However, occasional disappointing experiences make it necessary for us to mention the following:
ATTIRE:
MALE
Suit or coordinated sport jacket and pants. Open collar dress, casual or sport shirt. To travel in First Class In non-tropical zones, a dress shirt and tie or turtleneck shirt or sweater must be worn under coat or jacket. In tropical zones, an open-collared sport shirt may be worn under the jacket.
FEMALE
Dress or suit, pantsuit, skirt, or slacks. Coordinated dressy sweater or blouse.
NOTE:
The following are inappropriate as travel attire: collarless shirts, tank tops, T shirts, sweat shirts, short (bare midriff) shirts, short skirts, casual jeans, bare feet, sandals without hosiery, and hair in curlers.
BEHAVIOR/APPEARANCE:
Drinking to excess, unkempt appearance, coarse language, and loud talk (especially to full fare passengers about your being able to “fly anywhere for only a few dollars”) can be embarrassing to you and to Pan Am...as well as being unpleasant for the rest of the passengers. You are an important part of Pan Am’s image. Please "put your best foot forward."
IMPORTANT:
Abuse of travel privileges and infractions of dress and conduct codes are cause for suspension of travel benefits and possibly dismissal. No type ticket/Trip Pass is transferable from one person to another. The giving or selling to another person of free or reduced fare tickets issued to you or your dependents is against the law and will result in the dismissal of Pan Am employees. Any infractions by non-Pan Am employees will be reported to their Company and travel privileges on Pan Am will be canceled.