cellation of the entire group 15 days or less prior to the outbound (point of origin) flight departure, refund will be 90% of the group fare paid. Full refund will be made when the entire group cancels more than 15 days prior to the outbound (point of origin) flight departure.
(c.) Group Fares to or from theU.S.A.and Canada: In the event that a member of the group discontinues enroute his/her journey with the group, for any reason, the amount of the group fare paid by the passenger may be applied as a credit towards the purchase of transportation at applicable all year fares for the sectors actually flown and to be flown by the passenger, calculated from the point of origin.
m.	At departure time or afterward, if the number of passengers in the Travel Group is less than the number of tickets paid for, the group may travel as planned, provided all flight coupons are considered as used — ineligible for refund.
n.	Reroutings or changes in the itinerary may be arranged until 30 days before departure. These changes must affect total membership. However an earlier return of the entire group to the point of origin than the initial application calls for, via same airline (s) specified on the first application, may be arranged at any time.
o.	Affinity Group Fares permit discounts for minor children and infants, but exclude fare reductions for tour conductors.
p.	No additional commissions are paid for the sale of inclusive tours, in connection with Group Fares.
q.	Except as provided in g. (1), these Group Fares cannot be used to construct another type of round or circle trip fare. But half a Jet Group Fare can be combined with half a propeller Group Fare, if there is a difference in cost between them.
r.	(1) Caribbean Group Fares can be combined only with fares within the area comprised of the U.S.A./ Canada/Mexico.
(2)	Group Fares between the United Kingdom and Jamaica/Trinidad/Tobago can be combined only with domestic fares in the United Kingdom. In addition, stopovers are allowed only at points within the United Kingdom, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago.
(3)	Transpacific Group Fares combine only with fares between points in the U.S. and Canada.
(4)	South Pacific Group Fares cannot be used to con-truct Round the World or circle trip travel of any kind.
s.	Sales of Affinity Group Fares are limited to areas and countries described in these paragraphs.
VI. U.S.A./Canada to Israel Group Travel
Subject to the conditions outlined below, here are round trip Group Fares to Tel Aviv, Israel. Points of origin are Boston, Mass.; Montreal, Canada; and New York, N. Y.,
via the North Atlantic.
New York or Boston to Tel Aviv.......................$535
Montreal to Tel Aviv................................. 526
These fares apply to both Jet and propeller aircraft.
a.	USA/Canada to Israel Group Fare tickets are valid for travel throughout one year from date of issue. However, return travel from Israel can begin no less than 8 days after arrival.
b.	“Group,” in this case, means at least 40 passengers, 12 years of age or over. But two children paying half-fare are counted as one passenger.
c.	All members of the group must travel together:
(1)	from the US/Canadian gateway to Israel without stopover, on through or connecting flights.
(2)	from Israel to the US/Canada. One stopover is permitted on return portion. The groups must travel together to the point of stopover, and on the return transatlantic sector.
d.	Outbound Atlantic portion of trip, passengers must travel on one flight. In other sectors, part of the group may travel on the next available flight, if there is not enough space on a single aircraft.
't
e.	Written application must be made by Travel Organizer at least 21 days before travel begins. Application form includes a full description of the trip . . . origin, turnaround and stopover (if any) . . . number and names of passengers. The Travel Organizer is responsible for full payment of Group Fare to carrier 15 days before departure. As many as 10 names may be changed no later than 5 days before flight departure at the point of origin.
f.	The group can be organized by a travel agent. The travel agent may publicize tour literature involving mention of fares ... he may also arrange travel and tour accommodations on behalf of the person responsible for the group.
g.	Each group must be identified by a definite reference number (group code).
h.	Each ticket must be endorsed to show that the passenger is a member of a Travel Group. The group leader’s ticket shows the code number and, beside it, the number of passengers in the group. Each member’s ticket shows the group code number and, beside it, the last three numbers on the group leader’s ticket. In all cases, numbers appear in a special “non-transferable” box on tickets.
i.	Voluntary refunds are made only to the person responsible for transportation arrangements for the group — at his discretion. Refunds which reduce group membership to less than 40 people, eliminate the application of Group Fares.
j.	If, at departure or later, group membership is less than the number of tickets bought, travel can continue if remaining flight coupons are considered used—ineligible for refund.
k.	If for any reason after starting travel a passenger is unable to continue his trip, his Group Fare may be credited toward the purchase of applicable fares for the passenger’s actual itinerary, calculated from point of origin.
l.	Rerouting must affect entire groups, not individual travelers.