Ticketing Group Travel
A.	Assigning Group Code Number
Each group travelling at group fares must be assigned a group code (reference) number. This number identifies the group and acts as a cross-reference, in connection with the written application, reservations, ticketing and correspondence relating to the sale.
After Pan Am approves the application, the booking office assigns group code prefix identifying the following types of group travel:
Note: Code prefixes listed below should appear in all " reservations request” messages, so Reservations Control can identify types of group travel, assign numbers and respond.
a.	Common Interest Group Travel — Groups are identified by prefix “GT/C.”
b.	Affinity Group Travel — identified by “GT/A.”
c.	Honolulu Group Travel — identified by “GT/H.”
d.	Special Group Travel—U.S. — Israel, U.S. — Puerto Rico and IT Group Fares; identified by “GT/”.
B.	Issuing Tickets
The following endorsements, besides being industry requirements, help all ticketing agents to further identify and classify group travel for easy reference:
a. Group Codes
This information must be entered to right of passenger’s name in the “not transferable” box on the ticket.
(1)	Group Leader's Ticket: show group code number, followed by “/”, and the number of group members. Here are examples:
“GT/C/92/19” — 19 passengers on Common Interest Group No. 92
“GT/A/342/31” — 31 passengers on Affinity Group No. 342
“GT/H/595/96” — 96 passengers on Honolulu Group No. 595
“GT/42/30” — 30 passengers on Special Group Travel No. 42.
Note: Where tariff permits a change in number of passengers up to a specified time before departure, withhold delivery of Group Leader’s ticket until such date. Then, if a permissible change in number of passengers has occurred, correct entry accordingly. Example: “GT/A/342/34.”
This change shall be authenticated by means of a revalidation sticker on the passenger coupon with the notation, “Number of Group altered by ... ” across the “Via Carrier,” “Flight Number,” “Date,” “Time” and “Res. Status” boxes of the sticker.
(2)	Notations For Special Group Excursion Fares: the letter “E,” in the Fare-Class/Basis Box on tickets, indicates “Excursion,” when added to other notations outlined in (1) above. Examples: “E/30,” “E2M.”
(3)	Special Endorsements:
(a)	Voluntary refunds to members of Travel Groups are made to or at the direction of the Travel Organizer. Refund coupons on back covers of all tickets, must show his name, followed by “Travel Organizer.”
(b)	The word “NONREF” (refund restricted) must also appear in the “Form of Payment” box on every ticket — indicating that refunds are subject to applicable tariff restrictions.
(c)	In certain instances the rules permit the total amount of an Affinity Group Fare to be credited toward alternative travel at regular fares. Ticket agents may arrange the transfer simply by invalidating the group ticket and issuing a replacement at the regular fare, collecting the difference in cash. Entry, in Endorsements box on ticket coupons, reads: “Group Fare Credit $000 U.S. — Not Refundable.” “Additional Cash Paid $000 U.S. — Refundable.”
As permitted by the tariff when, prior to commencement of trip, a late cancellation occurs due to death of an affirfity group member or an immediate member of his/lier family the full affinity group travel fare paid by the passenger and any member of his/her family may be refunded. To prevent billing (s) from participating carrier (s) on the ticket (s) refunded make the following entry in the “Endorsements” box on all coupons of the Group Leader’s ticket and insert appropriate numbers in blank
spaces: “ORIGINAL GROUP........................
PASSENGERS REDUCED TO..........................
DUE TO DEATH OF GROUP MEMBER. FULL REFUND MADE ON..................TICKET(S).”
C.	Special Ticketing Procedures For Hawaii Group Travel
Ticketing for Honolulu group travel can be handled with ease and dispatch, because single ticket (s) may be issued to an entire group covering outbound travel... the return of at least 80% of the group . . . and individual return trips of the remaining 20% (or less). Procedures follow below.
a. Basic Ticket:
Ticketing agent issues a basic ticket for an entire group, with the required number of coupons for the trip. If all members return together, a basic ticket is sufficient. But if some members plan to separate for returns, procedures under b. on next page, should be followed.
(1) ‘ ‘Fare Calculation” column: Total fare for the entire group is entered here. For example: when a group of 30 travel ORD-LAX-HNL-LAX-ORD, enter fare $10,740 (30 times single fare of $358). If group travel originates in cities other than those specified for these fares, “add-ons” are separate entries in the “Fare Calculation” column.