2. Conditions
The following provisions govern all common interest group travel:
a.	“Group” means passengers paying adult fares, who have a bona fide common interest in traveling together — other than simply taking advantage of fare discounts.
b.	Two children each paying half an adult fare are counted as one adult passenger.
c.	A Travel Organizer must be responsible for the travel arrangements of his group, and should submit a signed application either to Pan Am or an Authorized Pan Am Travel Agent. The application should include the following information:
(1)	Origin and destination of trip.
(2)	Number and names of passengers in the group.
(3)	Date travel begins.
d.	Discounts apply to both first class and economy class fares. Other fares may be discounted as authorized by Pan Am. Discounts on student fares, inclusive tours and trips offering free passage for tour conductors are not permitted.
e.	Discounted fares cannot be combined with other fares. Therefore, through bookings in combination with these fares are not allowed.
f.	Travel Organizers pay full Group Fare to Pan Am.
g.	Discounts apply only when members of a group share the same itinerary.
h.	All members of a group must travel together throughout trips on the same aircraft, unless lack of seating, or other operating conditions, make it impossible. In this case, Pan Am may arrange separate travel on its own and/or another carrier’s aircraft.
i.	Stopovers — at any points authorized in connection with year round fares — are permitted.
j.	Baggage allowances and charges are the same as on all air travel.
k.	Rerouting must affect an entire group, not individual passengers.
l.	Voluntary cancellation by individuals or groups allows refunds — to or at the discretion of the Travel Organizer. However, no refunds will be made permitting travel at less than the applicable fares.
m.	Advertising and sale of common interest group travel
—	including issuance of exchange orders and issue wires
—	are limited to countries and areas listed in section B. 1.
C. GROUP TRAVEL BETWEEN U.S. MAINLAND/ HONOLULU
Any 10 people can take advantage of Honolulu Group Fare reductions via Pan Am. They apply between Honolulu and New York/Cincinnati/Cleveland/
Columbus/Detroit/Chicago/Los Angeles/San Francisco — with full fare add-ons to and from other points.
1. Conditions
All Honolulu Group Fares are subject to the following provisions:
a. 10 or more people must travel together. To compute the number of passengers, two half-fare children may be counted as one member of a group.
(1)	There are two exceptions to the “travel together” regulation:
(a)	If a flight on which the group holds confirmed space is cancelled or delayed, member (s) of the Travel Group will be accommodated on the next flight on which space is available.
(b)	At least 80% of the Travel Group must return to point of origin together.
(2)	These fares are valid for travel beginning or resuming:
(a)	Between Honolulu and San Francisco or Los Angeles, on schedules departing between 12:01 a.m. Mondays and 12 :00 midnight on Thursdays.
(b)	Between Los Angeles or San Francisco and Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Columbus, Detroit and New York, the above “day” restrictions do not apply.
(c)	Fares are in effect Westbound: January 7 through May 31 and September 16 through December 14.
(d)	Fares are in effect Eastbound: January 16 through June 14, and September 16 through December 31.
(3)	Honolulu Group Fare tickets are valid for 20 days in addition to departure date. Return travel must begin on or before midnight of the 20th day.
(4)	Written applications including a full description of travel . . . names and numbers of passengers, origin, stopovers . . . must be signed and submitted to Pan Am by the Travel Organizer, at least 15 days before travel begins.
(5)	Travel Organizers may substitute — in writing — no more than 10 names of group members, up until 5 days before departure. Additional names may be added to the group at any time prior to departure from the point of origin.
(6)	Reservations must be confirmed for the entire itinerary. Tickets are issued at least 15 days before departure. Ticket replacements are made no later than 5 days before travel starts. The Travel Organizer collects individual Group Fares and makes payment to Pan Am — in full or on an authorized time payment plan.
(7)	Travel For Children
(a)	Round trip fare for a child under 2 years of age is $26.60. The child must be accompanied by a group member, and may not occupy a separate seat. This fare reduction applies to only one child per group member.
(b)	Fare for a child less than two years old who has an individual seat and is accompanied by a member of the group, is half the usual Group Fare.