Rules
A. AFFINITY GROUP TRAVEL
For your purposes, a definition of ” affinity” includes members or employees of organizations, associations or corporations whose main interests are other than travel. Their families — children and close relations living in the same home — may also travel with them at the same low fares.
I. Round trip Group Fares, via regularly-scheduled Jet Clipper economy Rainbow service, are in effect in the following areas:
a.	Transatlantic
(1) Between points in the U. S., Canada, Mexico — and specific European and Middle Eastern destinations — Atlantic flights, for groups of 25 or more people, allow round trip fare reductions up to $325 per person. (2) Between Belfast, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, London and Manchester — and Kingston, Montego Bay, Port of Spain, Tobago, groups of 25 or more passengers can save up to $230 each, round trip. (3) Between points in the U.S.A., Canada, Mexico — and India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Nepal, 15 or more travelers can enjoy per-person savings of $340, over regular round trip economy fares.
b.	Transpacific
(1) Round trips between Los Angeles, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle, Vancouver, Honolulu, Anchorage — and Djakarta, Palembang, Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Hong Kong, Manila, Taipei, Okinawa, Tokyo, Seoul, Guam, Wake, offer round trip savings up to $340 each for groups of 25 or more people traveling together. Routes are via the North or Central Pacific. (2) One way Group Fares are also available, covering travel in either direction between Los Angeles, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle, Vancouver, Plonolulu, Anchorage — and Hong Kong, Manila, Taipei, Okinawa, Tokyo, Seoul. Flights follow North or Central Pacific routes. And fare savings are up to $150 each, for groups of 25 or more. (3) South Pacific — between Sydney, Auckland or Fiji, and Honolulu, Los Angeles, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle, and Vancouver, Group Fares allow round trip savings for 15 or more people traveling together.
c.	Caribbean
(1) Generally, Group Fares apply between New York or Miami (or both), and Antigua, Barbados, Barranquilla, Bermuda, Bogota, Fort de France, Kingston, Montego Bay, Nassau, Pointe a Pitre, Port au Prince, Port of Spain, Santo Domingo. Additional reduced fares are in effect to and from Dallas, Fort Worth, Los Angeles, New Orleans or San Francisco, at savings up to $79 for each of 25 or more travelers.
d.	Europe and the Middle East
(1) From points in Europe (excluding Denmark, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Greece, Turkey) — to Alexandria,
Cairo, Port Said, Luxor, Beirut, Damascus, Jerusalem, Amman, Baghdad, Nicosia, 25 or more passengers each pay a round trip Group Fare at 110% of the usual one way economy class fare.
e.	Pacific Area
(1) From points in Australia,NewZealand,NewCaledonia, New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti — to other points in the Pacific Area . . . and between points in Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti (excluding travel between Australia and New Zealand or Australia and Fiji), round trip Group Fares are 70% of regular economy class round trip fares, for each of 15 or more travelers. (2) Group Fares between points in Australia and New Zealand permit each of 30 or more passengers round trips for 70% of the usual round trip economy fares.
f.	Between Europe/Middle East and Pacific
(1) From points in Europe and the Middle East, to points in the Pacific Area (excluding India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Nepal and Australia/New Zealand), flights via Middle East routes allow each of 15 or more passengers a round trip Group Fare at 70% of regular round trip economy fares. (2) Between points in Europe/Middle East and Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti, round trip Group Fares via the Middle East are 70% of the usual round trip economy fare, for each of 15 or more persons. (3) Between points in Europe/Middle East and points in Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti via North America, Group Fares call for a discount of 30% from the usual economy fares. 15 or more people can save up to $410 apiece, round trip.
g.	Round the World
(1) Group Fares, for each of 15 or more passengers, are $340 less than Round the World Circle Trip fares, depending on routing. From Europe, Round-the-World Group Fares are determined by adding together half of each of the Group Fares described under f. (2) and f. (3) above.
II. Most Group Fare tickets are valid for one year. However, some allow travel only during specific periods. Generally, the following paragraphs describe time periods excluding affinity group travel, in all the areas outlined in preceding paragraphs:
a. Transatlantic
(1) During May, June, July, eastbound, and August, September, October, westbound, Group Fare travel may not begin across the North Atlantic, between 7 a.m. Fridays and 7 a.m. Mondays (local time). However, this restriction does not apply to travel groups originating and