vacation — or even less — than the tycoon of two decades ago could see in three months.
“Thanks to Pan American’s long and persistent campaign to reduce the cost of international travel, a passenger can go to foreign lands at fares which in many cases are equal to what he might pay to rent a place at the shore or to vacation at a nearby mountain resort.
“For example, the North Atlantic Group Fare makes it possible for a group of 25 or more persons to travel together to London and back on scheduled Jet Clippers at individual fares as low as $310. As recently as 1949, the lowest fare between New York and London was $350
—	one way.
“There’s been a great interest in recent years in charters
—	in which an organization leases a plane, most often a piston aircraft. Now, the new Group Fares provide jet transportation at comparable levels to charter fares — without the worry of filling an entire aircraft of 150 seats. With the new fares, a group has a choice of up to 204 Pan Am transatlantic Jet Clipper flights each week.
“The group rates are approximately $200 lower than the normal Economy Class round trip fares to Western European points. This means that passengers can travel from New York in groups of 25 or more to Shannon and back for $285, to London for $310 each, to Paris for $339, to Frankfurt for $362, to Lisbon for $310, to Stockholm for $397 and to other key Western European cities at comparable reductions. And, travel to Middle East cities is possible at a $325 reduction on the round trip Economy fare, an even greater reduction to Israel.
“The modern-day traveler can follow in the spirit of Magellan or Nellie Bly — the most famous of the globe circlers — and travel around the world — but much
The Presentation
A successful presentation to your group must include five key factors. Pan Am will help you with details.
1.	Destination ... is obviously the most important consideration, and is usually dependent on the interests of a majority of the membership of your club or organization.
2.	Special Events . . . such as congresses, conventions, fairs, exhibits or shows may be of interest to your group. Pan Am can supply a list of current attractions on request.
3.	Timing . . . majority agreement on when to travel is an obvious requirement, but planning should also take into account Pan Am Jet Clipper schedules and the availability of seating for your group.
4.	Cost . . . can be a decisive factor, so you should have a complete Group Fares list at your disposal — including domestic “add-ons” — air connections to Pan Am gateway
more cheaply and in much greater comfort. The new rates for groups of 15 or more make a round-the-world trip practical for less than $1,000, a savings of $340 from the individual fare. For transpacific travel the reduction is approximately $230 per person for groups of 25 or more; for example, that means a per-person fare to Tokyo and back from the West Coast of the United States of only $555.
“To reach the sun and sand, shopping and calypso in the Caribbean or Bermuda — the following new fares are for 25 or more members. New York to Bermuda is only $84 round trip, a savings of $36; New York-Jamaica is $170 — a $50 saved bargain.
“This organization qualifies for Group Fare because it has been formed for a purpose other than travel and has sufficient affinity to distinguish it from the general public. Therefore, any group of 25 or more from our club, who have been members of the organization for six months or more can participate in the travel group. And the 25 may also include your immediate families, so long as the member himself goes on the trip.
“All we have to do is apply to Pan Am for reduced group fare transportation at least 30 days before the date of departure with a 10% deposit. Tickets must be paid in full 21 days before departure.
“Under the new Group Fares, we can travel to almost anywhere in the world during the lovely spring months, the busy summer, the exciting fall or the gay winter.
“By Pan Am Clipper, it takes less than a day getting ‘there’ —nearly any place is ‘there’ in the jet age — and a passenger has almost his entire vacation for headache-free touring — going places and seeing things the ‘togetherness’ way through group travel.”
cities . . . and cost-inclusive tours. In addition, in most cases your group can enjoy stopovers in extra cities on your itinerary, at no extra fare — a fine way to see more and save more. Details on the Extra Cities Bonus Plan can be tremendously important in all phases of promotion, from planning to ticketing.
5. Ground arrangements . . . the group may desire to have all their ground arrangements neatly packaged for them before their departure. They may want you to be responsible for arranging their hotels, their land transportation, sight-seeing, meals, transfer services from airports to downtown, and possibly their visits to plants or other locations of interest to professional people. If so, your Pan Am office or Pan Am authorized travel agent can put all these things together for you either before you make your presentation or at whatever time is suitable.