How to Promote Group Travel
The purpose of this section is to help you in presenting the story of Pan Am’s World Wide Group Fares to any qualified organization.
Of course, you must first know whether the group meets the requirements for group travel. We’ve included a list of types of clubs, associations and so on, to help you determine this.
Once you’re certain, you might wish to open your presentation meeting using the “Suggested Speech” below, introducing Pan Am and the idea of group travel to the membership. Used as shown, the speech should whet interest in the factual matter which follows. You’ll be able to discuss destinations . . . special events . . . travel time . . . cost . . . extra services Pan Am can offer your group on the ground and aloft. There’s plenty to talk about, if you plan your presentation carefully in advance.
All sorts of groups ...
. . . are prospects for group travel. But because low Group Fares call for special qualifications, there are limitations on who may take advantage of these fares and when they are available.
A “group”, as the term relates to the promotion of Group Fares, is any assemblage of people qualifying for travel according to the particular rules in a later section.
Is your group among these?
Clubs and Common-Interest Groups — Groups of this kind can be categorized by examples. Typical are Lions . . . Elks . . . Rotarians and others. Sportsmen, ethnic and student organizations also qualify.
Employee Recreation Groups — Many companies sponsor recreation clubs as part of their employee activity programs. Members visit glamorous settings in other lands . . . usually for pleasure.
Religious Groups — Travel to famous shrines all over the world, often accompanied by ministers, priests or rabbis, under various plans.
Trade Associations — World conventions, fairs, exhibits, foreign manufacturers and products and methods attract memberships throughout the year. Often travel expenses of such groups may be deductible for income tax purposes.
Professional Organizations — Attend international meetings of all kinds . . . exchange ideas and information with noted foreign authorities . . . visit great libraries, museums, schools and universities noted in their field.
Educational Groups-—Teachers, students or a combination of both, may enroll in foreign universities for study courses ... or simply travel for extra semester-hour credits.
Fraternal Organizations — College, university and alumni societies often hold reunions, necessitating travel to the point of assembly.
Civic Groups — Chambers of Commerce and others study civic projects at first hand in cities all over the world.
Labor Union Groups — Travel to international meetings to exchange ideas with other labor leaders . . . observe working and living conditions in and around plants and factories in other countries.
Social Groups — Garden, art, music, literary and other clubs find travel both broadening and exciting.
How to Program Your Promotion
Suggested Speech on Group Travel, for Club and Organization Meetings:
As a Travel Organizer, you’ll undoubtedly want to acquaint your group with some of the benefits of group travel, and a sampling of fares and destinations. The following speech is suggested to help you ’’set the stage” for your promotional program.
“All over the world, the group travel idea has started organizations — groups just like this — on the go. Every year, Pan American takes more and more groups to more places all over the world.
“Group travel is fast becoming today’s most popular way
to go places, to see things, to enjoy them — together. “The group travel idea shifted into high gear in the spring of 1962 when special rates went into effect, dramatically reducing fares for persons traveling across the Atlantic in groups of 25 or more. In eight months, approximately 50 thousand persons took advantage of these low group fares. “The group fare concept was pioneered for transatlantic travel and, beginning April 1, 1963, was extended for travel across the Pacific, to Bermuda and the Caribbean, and around the world.
“In a matter of hours, a swift Pan American Jet Clipper can take you between the continents of the world. More can be seen and enjoyed in the space of a three-week