Travel agents . . . may not help you in the solicitation of your group, but there are many things they can do that will help you.
Travel agents can:
•	advertise the availability of group fares in any medium.
•	announce the availability of group fares by direct mail to social, civic, religious and other qualified organizations.
•	appear before qualified organizations and announce the availability of group fares and advise the organization that it qualifies for such fares, (though not assist in forming the group by soliciting individual members of the organization).
•	quote applicable group pro-rate fares in media and
direct mail advertising and in presentations addressed to qualified groups.
•	after group to be transported is formed, solicit the individual members of such group for the purpose of selling land tour arrangements.
•	request reservations for groups.
•	assist in the preparation of the group fare application on behalf of the group travel organizer after the group has been formed and submit the application to Pan Am, i.e. after the application is signed (though he should not sign the application himself).
•	travel as a member of the group, if he meets the “affinity” qualifications.
How Pan Am Looks After Groups
The “extra” your group can expect on all Pan Am travel is service — the kind that makes travel both comfortable and memorable. You can apply for the following special services for your group through Pan Am:
Service On The Ground
Check-in signs — a special section of check-in counters can be set aside for your group, identified by a suitable sign. Photographs — a group photo can be made at your request, when you arrive or depart. In addition, you may have special welcoming banners lettered. These are of two types. A standard banner your group can hold or a “Mini” banner, superimposed on a photograph. You may order prints in matte (dull) finish.
Seating — Groups are seated together on Pan Am Jet Clippers.
Renaming Clipper — If a group, on Jet Clipper economy class Rainbow service, occupies more than 90% of the seats, Pan Am can rename the aircraft, using the name of your organization or one of its important members.
Souvenir Menus — For groups of 75 or more people, Pan Am will print a menu including signature or other identifying symbol, a welcome message and special recognition for an individual member — such as “Cornish Hen a la Smith.” For ethnic groups, menus may be printed in the appropriate language.
Language — All Pan Am flight service personnel speak English and at least one other language, depending upon routings. For ethnic groups, on 45-day notice, Pan Am can arrange for flight personnel who speak the appropriate language.
Pooling of Baggage — As Travel Organizer, you may request in writing that all baggage be pooled, naming a group member to arrange payment of excess charges, if any. Contact with Travel Group — at all cities on the itinerary, Pan American local offices will be informed of arrivals and
departures, and will contact the group organizer to assist in every possible way.
Study Tours — Wherever possible, Pan Am will arrange for special visits to factories or other facilities important to the group.
Charter Buses — If group membership is 15 or more, it’s usually more convenient and economical to hire a bus for transportation between hotels and airports. Arrange it through Pan Am or your Pan Am authorized travel agent. Baggage Tags — Special Group baggage tags are available. Imprinted Overnight Bags — Pan Am can imprint canvas overnight bags with your group insignia and name, for $23.00 in addition to the cost of the bags, $1.00 each. Imprinted Glasses — Water glasses, imprinted with your insignia or a route map of your itinerary, are available in minimum lots of 144 at approximately $45.00. Each additional gross is approximately $25.00.
Publicity—Pan Am will arrange for publicity as requested.
Service In The Air
“ Welcome Aboard,” by Purser, includes your group by name. Cuisine, whether kosher, dietetic or vegetarian, can be arranged for members of your group, given at least 14 days’ notice.
Arrangements may be made for the serving of beverages of all kinds, including cocktails and other liquors. See Pan Am for the details.
Special Services at Idlewild, Los Angeles and Chicago — Uniformed Pan Am personnel will meet all groups arriving from either direction and arrange transportation to any direct connection.
Better and Better Service — Pan Am’s intention is to provide superior service at all times. But it is your responsibility as Travel Organizer to let us know about deficiencies. You can help us to correct mistakes or find new opportunities to serve you better — keep us informed.