(3)	Solicitation must be made only by members of the Travel Group or by officials of the Group Travel Organization.
(4)	The Travel Group cannot be gathered, directly or indirectly, by a person engaged in soliciting or selling transportation services — or providing transportation to the general public. However, the Travel Group can use the services of an authorized Pan Am Travel Agent, to assist them in making travel arrangements. These include ascertainment of fare amounts but not collection from Travel Group’s individual members, arrangement of itineraries and other travel services.
(5)	Groups may consist of members, their spouses and dependent children and members’ parents living in the same household, provided they are accompanied by the member on the trip. If, for some reason, the member is compelled to cancel his reservation, his family may still travel — provided that his fare is not refunded.
(6)	“Public solicitations,” describing, referring to or announcing transportation at these fares in advertising or other writing ... or by any means of public communication, paid or unpaid ... is forbidden. But statements, other than advertisements in public news media, are not considered public solicitations if they do not attempt to induce travel. Such statements may be made by people outside Travel Groups, including Pan Am Travel Agents, Pan Am itself or Group Travel Organizers.
d.	Written application, (forms available from Pan Am and Pan Am Authorized Travel Agents) must be submitted at least 30 days before departure — signed by the Travel Organizer and enclosing a deposit of 10% of the total Group Fare. This deposit is subject to forfeit in the event of cancellation of the group.
e.	Only persons named on the application are permitted to travel as members of the Travel Group, with the following exceptions:
(1)	No later than 5 days before departure, the Travel Organizer can substitute a maximum of 10 qualified names, in writing. Ticketing for these substitutes must be completed at least 5 days before departure.
(2)	No later than 10 days before departure, the Travel Organizer can add 5 qualified members to the Group Travel Organization. Their tickets must be issued and paid for at least 10 days before travel begins.
f.	Excepting the provisions of e* (1) and (2) note ticketing and full payment of Group Fares for members of the Travel Group, must be completed not less than 21 days before flight departure. Ticketing is arranged through Pan Am by the Group Travel Organizer and full payment is to Pan Am or a Pan Am authorized Travel Agent supervising arrangements.
g.	Each Travel Group must be identified by a reference number (group code) assigned by Pan Am.
h.	Each ticket must be endorsed to show that the passenger is a member of the Travel Group. The group leader’s ticket shows the group code and, beside it, the number of members in the group. Each member’s ticket shows the
group code and, beside it, the last three numbers on the group leader’s ticket. In each case, these numbers appear in the “non-transferable” box to be found on all tickets.
i.	If some or all members of the Group Travel Organization cancel, they may make written application for a refund at least 21 days before departure. Refunds exclude 10% deposits. Individual passengers who cancel may apply for refunds /ess than 21 days before travel begins, if the number of qualified substitutes (see e. (1), for specific details) restores membership to the same total appearing on the original application. Refunds are made only to the Group Travel Organizer, at his request and discretion.
V. In the event of cancellation or rerouting, Group Fares may be refunded wholly or in part, under the following circumstances:
(1)	I n the event of the death of a member of the Travel Group, or of any member of his immediate family before travel begins, the full group fare paid by the passenger and any member (s) of his immediate family may be refunded.
(2)	In the event of a passenger’s death en route, the difference, if any, by which the group fare paid by the passenger exceeds the applicable “normal” fare for the sectors actually flown (calculated from the point of origin) may be refunded.
(3)	When a death in the immediate family of a passenger occurs after the commencement of travel, the amount of the group fare paid by the passenger may be credited toward the purchase of transportation at applicable fares for the sectors flown and to be flown by the passenger.
(4)	Illness, occurring after commencement of travel, which makes it impossible for a passenger to complete his trip, allows the same credit described in (3) above. Physical disability must be substantiated by a medical certificate.
j.	Under any of the circumstances outlined in (1) (2),
(3), or (4), remaining members of the Group Travel Organization can begin or continue travel, regardless of their number, as described on the original application, subject to all other conditions of this rule.
k.	“Immediate Family,” referred to in (3), means spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters.
l.	If complete voluntary cancellation of group travel takes place less than 21 days before departure, the non-refundable portion of a Group Fare can be credited toward the cost of regular transportation for each passenger. In this case, a ticket at regular fare must include the number of the former Group Fare Ticket, with an endorsement indicating that this portion of the regular fare is non-refundable.
Note: Special Refund Provisions Applicable to U. S. or Canadian Groups.
(a.) Group Fares to or from the U.S.A.: In the case of voluntary cancellation of the group or some members thereof, less than 21 days prior to the outbound (point of origin) flight departure, refund will be 75% of the group fare paid, (b.) Group Fares to or from Canada: In the event of can-