ready-to-mail letter for group travel prospects
...among your friends and associates. The word is "group" - and when you put it together with "travel," you’ve got a mighty economical way to visit a lot of the world. We'll be glad to mail you free information on group travel, as explained below - so you can spread the word around.
lour friends might want to know that low Group Fares are now available to dozens of destinations throughout the world: 25 or more people can visit Europe, the Middle East or Africa at round trip savings up to 1325 per person... or go to the Orient, saving as much as $3b0. And the new Group Fares to India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Nepal - or all the way Round the World - also save $3k0 but require only 15 people. Real travel bargains, putting the dream of a holiday abroad within the reach of almost every budget.
You might remind them that traveling with friends having common interests, or fellow club members, can be one of the happier ways to spend a vacation.
You can tell them the Group Fares permit unlimited holiday travel...include visits to extra cities at no extra fare, through Pan Am's Extra Cities Bonus Plan. And while you're at it, let them know they'll fly in serene comfort aboard giant Pan American Jet Clippers - high above the "weather" -at speeds close to 600 miles an hour. Getting there is no problem, and there'll be plenty of time to see and do more than you ever thought possible.
We're sure your friends and associates will get the Group Fare picture -when you tell them. And as Authorized Pan Am Travel Agents, we'll be glad to help, too - by mailing details on group travel. All you have to do is fill out and return the enclosed postpaid reply card. In addition, we'll be happy to give you complete information about new, low Group Fares to Hawaii - just phone or drop in and see us anytime.
Cordially,
Your Name,
Agency Name and Address, Phone Number to be Imprinted Here
AUTHORIZED PAN AM TRAVEL AGENT
The above letter is designed for mailing by travel agents. Letterheads like this are available to group organizers at low cost.