paying in Puerto Rico, or those going to Puerto Rico via direct Atlantic routings outside the U.S.A. (2) Between 1 a.m. on June 24 and 11 :59 p.m. July 7 (eastbound), and between 1 a.m. August 25 and 11 :59 p.m. September 7 (westbound), transatlantic Group Fare travel may not begin.
Note: "Weekend” exclusion in (1) concerns travel direction, outbound or inbound. For example: While a New York-London trip in May excludes weekend travel, a London-New York trip returning in May permits it. And while the group can travel New York-London on weekends in October . . . they cannot fly London-New York during October.
And in (2), the period of exclusion also affects travel direction. For example: a group traveling New York-London in May can return London-New York any time from June 24 through July 7. But a group traveling London-New York in June may not return New York-London from June 24 through July 7.
b.	Transatlantic
Travel exclusions listed above section a. (2) apply on Group Fare travel described on the preceding page in section a. (3) and f. (3). However, weekend travel is allowed.
c.	Transpacific
(1) Described in b. (2) on the preceding page, round trip group travel may not begin during March, April, September or October — outbound from U.S./Canada West Coast gateways to the Pacific Area, if point of origin is the United States. (2) Group travel orginating in the Pacific Area and terminating in a U.S./Canada West Coast gateway, may not begin July through August — except that there is no restriction on the travel described in b. (3) on the preceding page.
Note: Return portion of transpacific round trip Group Fare travel is not restricted. As an example, a group traveling Seattle-Tokyo in July may return Tokyo-Seattle in August. A group traveling Tokyo-Seattle in September may return Seattle-Tokyo in October." West Coast gateway” includes Honolulu and Anchorage.
d.	One Way Transpacific Group Fares
(1) Outlined in b. (2) on the preceding page. One way group travel from U.S./Canada West Coast gateway to the Pacific Area may not begin during March, April, September and October. (2) One way group travel originating from the Pacific Area, terminating at a U.S./Canada West Coast gateway, may not begin June through August. Note: As before, "West Coast gateway” includes Honolulu and Anchorage.
e.	Caribbean
(1) Described in c. on the preceding page. Group Fares between the U.S. and Nassau exclude travel from December 15 through April 15 of the year following. (2) Group Fares between the U.S. and Bermuda exclude travel two weeks before and after Easter. In 1963, exclusion covers April 1 through 28 — in 1964, March 15 through April 12.
f. Round the World
(1) Described in g. on the preceding page, transatlantic group travel is excluded between 1 a.m., June 24 and 11:59 p.m. July 7 (eastbound), and between 1 a.m., August 25 and 11:59 p.m. September 7 (westbound). Weekend travel on transatlantic routes is allowed. No restrictions exist on transpacific routes.
III.	Requirements for Affinity Travel Groups
These paragraphs describe procedure you should follow in organizing and ticketing.
a.	Every Group Fare requires a minimum number of passengers, called a “Travel Group.” In computing the number of travelers in any group, you may count two half-fare passengers as one member of a group.
b.	All members of the Travel Group must travel together on the same flight(s) for an entire itinerary. Except: (1) when operating conditions, over which the carrier has no control, prevent the Travel Group from flying on a single aircraft. In this case, some members of the group may fly on the next preceding or succeeding plane. (2) Applicable only to transatlantic Group Fares — On portions of transportation within Europe and the Middle East, if there is no space for passengers to travel as a single group, Pan Am may carry the Travel Group: (a) On the first two flights where space is available, if the Travel Group numbers between 25 and 30 members, (b) On the first three flights, when Travel Group has more than 30 members. (3) Applicable to transatlantic, Round the World and Australia/New Zealand Group Fares — On portion (s) of transportation in or between the U.S., Canada or Mexico, passengers are not required to travel as a single group.
c.	Affinity groups are formed by members or employees of the same organization, such as an association, corporation or other legal entity — called the “Group Travel Organization” — whose principal purposes are other than travel. Such groups must have interrelation enough to distinguish them from the general public, and may not be gathered together simply to take advantage of Group Fares. (Groups formed outside the U.S. or Canada may not be made up from organizations with memberships exceeding 20,000 persons — and the group members must have sufficient identity to distinguish them from the general public. Membership total limitation does not apply to U.S. or Canadian groups.)
IV.	In forming a Travel Group from categories described in c. ("Requirements”), the following provisions apply:
(1)	Each member of the Travel Group must be a member of the Group Travel Organization at the time application is made and for at least six months before travel begins.
(2)	Solicitation must be limited to telephone calls, personal letters and circulars addressed to members of the Group Travel Organization and to publications intended solely for such members (or for federations or organizations to which the Group Travel Organization belongs).