m.	U.S.A./Canada to Israel Group Fares allow discounts for infants and other minor children, but do not include free or reduced fare transportation for tour conductors unless all purchase tours valued at at least 20% of air fare, in which case free or reduced-fare transportation may be arranged for one tour conductor.
n.	No additional commissions are paid for the sale of inclusive tours in connection with U.S.A./Canada to Israel Group Fares.
o.	These Group Fares can be combined only with full local domestic fares in the Continental U.S., Canada and Mexico.
VII.	Group Travel between Manila and Hong Kong
1. The following discounts apply to groups traveling between Manila and Hong Kong, via economy class services:
a.	For groups of 10-14 passengers, a discount of 10% for each passenger.
b.	For groups of 15 or more passengers, a discount of 15% for each passenger.
VIII.	Group Travel between New York and San Juan, P. R.
1. These fares are subject to the following conditions:
a.	25 or more passengers constitute a group for travel between New York and San Juan. They must travel together on the same aircraft, unless lack of seating accommodations or other operating conditions make it impossible. In this case, some members of the group may be carried on preceding or succeeding flights.
b.	Written application, (forms available from Pan Am and Pan Am Authorized Travel Agents) stating the number and names of passengers, origin and destination of trip, must be signed and submitted by the Travel Organizer — enclosing full payment.
c.	These fares may be combined only with fares to and from points in the Continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada or the Virgin Islands.
d.	Refunds may be made only to the Travel Organizer. If cancellation is voluntary, refunds permitting travel at less than applicable fares are not allowed.
e.	Tour conductor privileges allow one free fare for every 15 passengers in a group — calling for a maximum of 4 free travel passes.
f.	There are no discounts for infants, other minor children or Agents.
IX.	Group Travel from Central and South America to Houston and Miami
1. These fares are subject to the following conditions:
a.	A group consists of at least 20 persons traveling together.
b.	Travel must begin and end within a 17 day period. But if a ticket expires on a day when flight service is not
available, travel limits may be extended to the date of the next scheduled flight.
c.	These fares are effective only when all group members travel together on the same flight (s) throughout their itinerary.
d.	All group members must travel on a single group visa.
e.	No stopovers at intermediate points are permitted.
f.	Normal baggage allowance and excess charges apply.
g.	Children’s discounts, free or reduced fares are not permitted.
h.	When travel is partly by Jet and partly by propeller aircraft, the difference in cost for the Jet portions is added to the propeller Group Fare.
i.	These fares can be combined only with U.S. domestic fares.
B. COMMON INTEREST GROUP TRA VEL
" Common Interest” includes scientific, trade, cultural (iethnic and religious) and student groups which have a bona fide common interest in traveling together.
1. Fares
The following discounts affect each member of a Travel Group on one way, round trip or circle trip travel between points indicated. Each discount is subject to all conditions described in paragraph 2.
Areas	No. Adult Passengers Required in Group	Discount From Applicable Fare
a. Within Europe, or between points in Europe and Benghazi, Tripoli, Libya; and between points in Europe and points in the Middle	15 or more,	10%
East, excluding Israel		.10 to 14	5%
b. Within the Middle East, Libya and Tunisia		. 15 or more	10%
c. Within the area of Rhodesia, Nyasaland, South Africa and South West Africa, Malagasy, Reunion, Mauritius, Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika, Zanzibar, Eastern Provinces of the Congo (Oriental, Kivo, Katanga), Ruanda, Urundi. .	. . 15 or more	10%
d. Within the area of Upper Volta, Niger, Guinea, Mali, Mauritania, Ivory Coast, Dahomey, Senegal, Gambia, Portuguese Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ghana, Togo and
Nigeria		. 15 or more	10%
e. Between Australia and New Zealand		. 10 or more	10%
f. Within the area of New Caledonia, Fiji Islands, Samoa, Tonga, Cook Islands, Tahiti and New Zealand 		. 10 or more	10%
g.	Within the area of Malaya, Singapore, North Borneo, Sarawak, Brunei, Indonesia, Thailand, South Viet Nam, Cambodia and Laos	 h.	Within the area of Pakistan,	. 10 or more	10%
India, Burma and Ceylon		. 10 or more	10%
i. Between the Philippines and Indonesia		. 10 or more	10%
j. Between Hong Kong and Malaya, Singapore and Indonesia		. 10 or more	10%