(c) Fares for children at least two years old, but less than 12 years old — accompanied by a group member — are half the usual Group Fares.
(8)	Stopovers
on outbound or return portions—are allowed. However, all members of the Travel Group must make stopovers together.
(9)	Circle Trips
(a)	Round trip Group Fares can be combined with U.S. domestic fares for circle trips.
(b)	Half of the round-trip Group Fare between Honolulu
and any two destinations in the Continental U.S. may be combined with other fares to form a circle trip fare,
(c)	Half a round trip fare between Honolulu and San Francisco, and between Honolulu and Los Angeles can be combined to form an open JAW trip.
(lO)	Through Fares
Honolulu Group Fares are in effect only between points described in the introduction to this section. But air connections to and from these points of origin — domestic “add-ons” — may be calculated into total Group Fares, to form through fares.
How to Apply for Group Travel
A. Check List
1.	The following list is intended as a reminder for everyone arranging Group Fare travel via Pan Am. Specific procedures, described in previous sections, are called for. However, in all cases, you should be sure of the following :
a.	Definitions applying to specific groups
b.	Definition of “immediate family”
c.	Regulations governing solicitation
d.	Restrictions on Group Fare and regular fare combinations
e.	Extent of routing over which groups must travel together
f.	Rules governing changes in group membership
g.	Cancellation and voluntary refund provisions
h.	Voluntary and involuntary rerouting and endorsement provisions
i.	Restricted periods of travel
j.	Whether or not stopovers are permitted
k.	Inclusive periods of specific types of group travel
l.	Extension of ticket limits
m.	Whether tour conductors privileges — allowing either free or reduced fare travel — are included
n.	Whether extra commissions are allowed for inclusive tours
o.	Requirements on advance deposits, date of ticketing payment and reporting
B. Written Application
Written application, signed by the Travel Organizer, must be submitted to Pan Am or a Pan Am authorized Travel Agent. It must include all information applying to the kind of Group Fare sold. As an example, affinity group travel calls for the kind of application on the following pages. (This same application can be adapted to other types of Group Fares, simply by crossing out irrelevant statements.) Further, Travel Organizers may — following these rules-of-thumb — apply for group travel under their own letterheads. Copy of the approved application must be attached to the auditor’s coupons of all tickets issued for the group.
a. Exception : When group travel is between Europe and Israel, two extra copies of a written application must be prepared. Pan Am files one copy with IATA Conference secretary of TC-2 at least 15 days before departure. The second copy — enclosing a filing notice — goes to Director, IATA Traffic, Pan American World Airways, Inc., New York, N.Y.