Cz< r/,/oj
sand churned from the lava of the volcano. Paradoxically, there is skiing in winter on the slopes of the volcano. Hunters shoot wild goats there. Visit Parker Ranch. There is the Waimea Ranch Hotel in the middle of the ranch, which is fine and comfortable. On the Kona coast of the island there is marvelous fishing. The charming Kona Inn, Waiaka Lodge and Kona Palms are headquarters for deep-sea fishermen.
Maui. . . On Maui there are inns and villages at various altitudes rising from sea level to the rim of Haleakala, the world’s largest dormant volcano. The Hotel Hana-Maui at the eastern tip of the island is the last word in luxury, but there are others more moderate. The Crater is an extraordinary sight with its cinder cones rising thousands of feet. The cones are in brilliant colors as well as black. The unique Hawaiian flower, the silversword, grows near and around them. You may descend to the floor of the crater on horseback. The new Maui Palms Hotel in Wailuku is good.
Lahaina on the lee side of the island, is reached by the Lahaina-Wailuku Road, noted for its scenery. There you will see the biggest banyan tree in the- Islands and the Church of the Holy Innocents, with a Hawaiian Madonna painted from a native model. While on Maui, try to see a hukilau, or community fishing party, at Hana. You may stay at the Pioneer Inti.
Kauai is known as the Garden Island because of its foliage. Captain Cook landed there. The Kauai Inn and Coco Palms Lodge at Lihue are modern and excellent. They are American Plan and have everything from swimming pools to Saturday-night hula shows. One of the largest sugar mills on the Islands is here. This is an island where you will do well to hire a U-Drive car or a private car, for you will have more fun and see more that way. Hanalei on Kauai is one of the finest beaches on the Islands. There are also on the lee side the Barking Sands, with five-foot coral and lava dunes. The sand, when rubbed, sounds like a dog barking.
There is the sliding bathtub, where falls spray down a natural chute into a fresh-water swimming pool. Here, too is the Wai Lua River, near the mouth of which is a hotel, very small and very good, the Garden Island. You may go by hired boat up a river filled with water hyacinths to the Fern Grotto, where ferns hang from the rocks.
WHEREVER YOU GO YOU NEED NEW HORIZONS
This booklet covers, in abridged form, only one of 89 countries described in detail in Pan American’s best-selling, NEW HORIZONS WORLD GUIDE. The 576-page book also includes useful travel tips, weather charts, photographs and maps. Pick up your copy at any Pan Am office or travel agent, or write Pan American, Dept. R, P.O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y. Only $1 in U.S. currency or equivalent.