TIME. . . Two hours earlier than Pacific Standard Time.
TIPPING. . . About the same as on the Mainland.
TRANSPORTATION ... Modern buses, taxis. Private cars can be rented easily. Frequent airline service between islands.
WATER. . . Both water and milk are safe to drink.
WHAT TO BUY... Hawaiian perfumes, native jams and jellies, textiles, coral jewelry, jades and Oriental goods. You may want to take home an holoku, the traditional Hawaiian gown with long train for formal wear, and a muumuu, which makes a fine house coat or hostess gown. Also Hawaiian wood crafts.
WHAT TO WEAR . . . Sportswear is worn on many more occasions in Hawaii than on the Mainland. Cotton dresses for women, sports shirts and slacks for men. You’ll need sweaters and topcoats for the higher altitudes of Hawaii and Kauai. Better take evening clothes along too. Dark glasses are a must.
WHERE TO GO—SIGHTSEEING . . .
Honolulu . . . Within Honolulu there are many attractions. Walking tours are popular. If you prefer the sea to the streets, there is a wide range of boat accommodations available. You can take one of the famous glassbottom-boat trips either day or night. You will want to see the Aloha Tower for a panoramic view of Honolulu Harbor and the city and hills of Honolulu. The Hawaiian Village in Ala Moana Park near the Ala Wai yacht channel and the sea is an exact replica of ancient Hawaiian homes. Also in Ala Moana Park you will see all sorts of sailing and fishing craft, interesting family groups picnicking, and the Kewalo basin fishing center. Iolani Palace, former royal palace of the Hawaiian monarchy, is now the seat of state government. A trip through the pineapple canneries is interesting; regular tours are conducted on canning days. The Honolulu fish markets are fascinating, located in an area of colorful Chinese stores; native fishermen sell octopus, squid, a tremendous variety of brilliant fish, and other seafoods. Also of great interest is Fisherman’s Wharf, where the sampans that do most of Hawaii’s deep-sea fishing gather. You will not want to miss seeing Upside-down Falls, a phenomenon that occurs when a heavy rain falls over the cliffs and is blown upward instead of falling downward. Take a waterfront tour along Ala Moana from the yacht harbor at the Ala Wai canal to Aloha Tower.
A must on your list should be a trip to Chinatown. Although the buildings are not so distinctive as those in San Francisco, the small apothecary, jade, food and other shops are well worth seeing. In addition to the abundance of exotic flowers to be seen everywhere, for flower lovers there are special hibiscus drives and walks along the streets of the lei makers. Also the Foster Gardens, which are public gardens containing all the flowers, trees and shrubs which grow throughout the tropics. Other Oahu Island attractions that can be included in a round-the-island tour by U-Drive car, taxi or special Gray Line tour or Trade Wind Tour Pali Cruiser are: a drive through a luxuriant forest to the famous Nuuanu Pali where from the lookout you get an impressive view; Pearl Harbor, now the home of the