HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland or Seattle. Jet flying time from U.S. west coast about 5>Vi hours. By ship from San Francisco, 5 days.
ACCOMMODATIONS .. . The Royal Hawaiian on Waikiki Beach, the best-known hotel in the Islands, has everything: dining terraces, dancing, entertainment, tennis courts. Rates about $16 to $30 double, American Plan (European Plan available). The Halekulani, also on the beach, is quiet and pleasant. Rates $10 to $32 double, European Plan. Other good hotels on Waikiki, all European Plan (with double rates quoted), include the Moana, under the same management as Royal Hawaiian, $8 to $16. The hotel rooms and cottages of Kaiser’s huge Hawaiian Village are $10 to $40. There are a number of other excellent new hotels: The Reef, $8.50 to $50; the Waikiki Biltmore, $9 to $17; the Princess Kaiulani, $7.50 to $16; the Surfrider, $12 to $22; the Waikikian, $7 to $20. There are also many small hotels and apartment hotels which are available by the day, week or month. Rates given apply the year around; make reservations in advance.
ARTS.... Honolulu Academy of Arts contains interesting collections of Oriental and Western art, and special exhibitions of Pacificana and modern art. Bishop Museum houses one of the finest collections of Pacificana and crafts of the entire Pacific, birds, animals, famous feather work of the Hawaiians and historic relics. This is a must in Honolulu. Queen Emma Museum is the beautiful home of the former Queen and contains many collections of personal and household relics of the era in which she lived. Archives, next to Iolani Palace, contain important and valuable Hawaiian documents, relics and old photographs of early island history. Good source of reference on early culture. history and politics. The Iolani Palace throne room is interesting.
BALLET. . . No ballet here, but there is always the hula. And it can be beautiful.
BANKS... In Honolulu: American Security Bank; Bank of Hawaii; Bishop National Bank; Liberty Bank, Central Pacific Bank. These banks have many branches throughout the Islands.
CALENDAR OF HOLIDAYS... New Year’s Day; Chinese New Year, about a month later; Lei Day (May Day); June 11, Kamehameha Day; March 26. Prince Kuhio Day (Hawaii’s first delegate to Congress); Flower Festival in September. Aloha Week in October or November is similar to Mardi Gras. Christmas Eve and Christmas Day.
CIGARETTES, TOBACCO. . . Same as on the Mainland.
CLIMATE. . . There are frequent but short showers. Like spring or early fall on the Mainland. Generally speaking, it’s “short-sleeved” weather.
CLUBS. . . Rotary, Lions, Y.M.C.A., Kiwanis, Junior Chamber of Commerce, American Legion, Soroptomist, Zonta, Altrusa. For golf and tennis clubs, see sports.
COMMON COURTESIES AND LOCAL CUSTOMS... You