RELIGION. . . There are churches of all denominations.
RESTAURANTS . . . Top hotels all have several dining rooms and serve excellent food. One of the best-known and most popular restaurants is Lau Yee Chai in Waikiki. Its outdoor dance floor has a vertical rock garden and waterfall. The food is superb. There are a number of picturesque Japanese tea houses. Reservations should be made in advance. The Tropics, the Broiler, the Tahitian Lanai and the Colonel’s Plantation, Beef Steak and Coffee House are popular. Be sure to attend a Hawaiian luau, a combination of the best native dishes and Polynesian entertainment. Some of the places which feature these are Don the Beachcomber’s and Queen’s Surf and the Hawaiian Village. Luaus are by reservation only. Among the best places for cocktails in the Waikiki area are: the Royal Hawaiian Hotel, Captain Cook Bar in the Surfrider, the Bora Bora Bar at Don the Beachcomber’s, Kamaaina Bar at the Moana, the Tiare Room Shell Bar and Ale Ale Kai Room at the Hawaiian Village, the House Without a Key at the Halekulani, the Gourmet, the Queen’s Surf and the bars of the new hotels.
SHOPS AND STORES ... Honolulu is a wonderful place to buy Oriental wares, for Chinese objets d’art and other Chinese goods. The Watumull Stores in downtown Honolulu and Waikiki are good places to buy hand-blocked linens and other textiles, Hawaiian sportswear, carved Hawaiian woods and lauhala bags. Lauhala is the leaf of the pandanus tree, from which all sorts of novelties are made. At Waikiki as well as in downtown Honolulu there are many other good shops.
SPECTATOR SPORTS . .. Polo, wrestling, boxing, baseball, barefoot football.
SPORTS . . . Surfboard riding is the islands’ pastime. Instructors can be hired by the hour. Water skiing is popular. Outrigger canoeing and catamaran (twin-hulled craft) sailing is also popular. You can charter boats to sail yourself or take one of the regular charter-boat trips. For deep-sea fishing, boats may be chartered; the fishing is sensational. You can learn to spear fish off the reefs. There are tennis courts open to the public at Ala Moana Park along the sea. Racquets may also be rented. You can hike in Hawaii’s wonderful mountains by joining the Hawaiian Trail and Mountain Club. Hawaii’s hunting includes pheasant, quail, pigs, deer and goats. Goat hunting is the only sport available the entire year. There are many bowling alleys. For those who prefer archery, targets are always standing in Kapiolani Park in Honolulu.
There are many good golf clubs. Your hotel manager can arrange a guest card for you. Walalae Golf Club is a championship course where the annual Hawaiian opens are held some years. Oahu Country Club is a private club used by many visitors who are invited to play by members. The Ala Wai in Waikiki and Pali are municipal courses.
THEATER. . . The Honolulu Community Theater offers a year-round program of stage plays.