will find that the Hawaiian people are extremely friendly and will go out of their way to make your stay enjoyable. Newcomers are called Malihinis, old timers, Kamaainas and warm friends, Aikanes Aloha, of course, in the traditional expression of greeting or farewell. Because of this highly relaxed, friendly way of life, you will undoubtedly find yourself becoming a “native” soon after your arrival. There is nothing that pleases the Hawaiians more. The Hawaiian lei is a very special thing. It can be made of any one of a number of native flowers, but each island has its own lei and every flower lei has a different meaning. Hawaiians refer to the rest of the United States as the Mainland.
COMMUNICATIONS .. . RCA, Mackay, and Globe Wireless, telephone, radio and airmail.
CURRENCY . . . Same as in the States.
DRUG STORES .. . Many of them the same as on the Mainland.
ELECTRIC CURRENT. . . Same as in most of the rest of the United States, 120 volts, a.c.
FLORA.. . The Hawaiian Islands are a living flower show. Hibiscus blooms the year round. Bougainvillaea is everywhere, as is the famous night-blooming Cereus. The fabulous Bird of Paradise is guarded preciously when it blooms. Orchids are everywhere and are even sold in the dime stores. Hawaii’s flowering trees are wonderful to see. The African tulip tree, the jacaranda, the shower trees, and Pride of India, the poinciana and many others are all indigenous to the Islands and add to their charm.
FOOD . . . There are many restaurants and hotels where you can get international food. And, of course, there are wonderful Chinese and Japanese restaurants. The luau, which is a Hawaiian feast, features the Hawaiian dish poi, a paste made of the root of the taro plant. You must try it, along with the local fruits and juices, such as pineapple, papaya, guava nectar, passion fruit juice and papaya juice.
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING .. . Modern facilities same as on the Mainland.
LIQUOR... All of the usual brands are available at regular prices. There are exotic local drinks with floating Vanda orchids, such as Moana Banyan Court Punch.
MEDICAL FACILITIES . .. Same as on the Mainland.
MOTION PICTURES ... Same as on the Mainland.
MUSIC . . . The Honolulu Symphony is the leading musical organization of the Islands. Members of the orchestra are working people who perform under the leadership of a competent director. Artist Series: visitors can enjoy good music presented by the finest visiting artists. Then there is the Hawaiian music so familiar on the Mainland.
NIGHT CLUBS AND CABARETS... There is a tremendous variety of night life in Hawaii, although the typical night club is in the minority. At most night clubs you can see a good hula and many places feature Tahitian and Samoan entertainment.
PHOTOGRAPHY. . . All types of film and photo equipment are available throughout the Islands at the same price as on the Mainland. Film developing takes three or four days.