ABOUT FARES...
Important: all fares in this booklet are stated in U. S. dollars.
LOOK INTO PAN AM’S NEW WORLD-WIDE GROUP FARES
... now you can go group
almost anywhere in the world and enjoy huge savings!
Pan Am Group Fares are now world-wide, and so low they’re a wide-open invitation to group travel to almost anywhere. Substantial round trip savings — for groups of varying numbers traveling together over regular Pan Am routes, via regularly scheduled Jet Clipper flights — open up a fascinating variety of itineraries, make possible complete round-the-world trips as well as scores of other choices.
Now, you can choose among many destinations, including Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Caribbean, Hawaii, India, the Orient, Australia/ New Zealand and Round The World. In the data on destinations that starts on the next page, you’ll find out more about these new World-Wide Group Fares . . . sample fare reductions, information on required group size and other qualifications for group travel to particular areas, the details of exciting savings made to order for the most exacting travel budget.
Note: All Group Fares are subject to change. Check first with your authorized Pan Am Travel Agent, or nearest Pan American office.
CHECK THESE OTHER PAN AM TRAVEL BARGAINS
Rainbow Economy Service. The basic money saver. You fly the same Jet Clipper, enjoy the same high standards in equipment, crew personnel and operation as first class service — yet pay substantially less. Only the frills are omitted.
Round-Trip Fares. Another basic economizer that can save you as much as 5% over one-way service — even when you take advantage of Pan Am’s “alternate routings” to go one way, return another, and see and enjoy more.
Special Excursion Fares, some on a seasonal basis, some year ’round, are available on many routes.
Charter. If your group is large enough, there may be definite advantages. Check with your authorized Pan Am Travel Agent, or your nearest Pan American office, to find out whether your group qualifies, and if a charter is best for you.
Special Tours At Bargain Rates. Packaged cost-inclusive tours — designed to give travelers the most for their money — can often be redesigned to be even better bargains for a group. In addition1, your Travel Agent or Pan Am can often help you set up special tours to fit your group’s special interests.
Extra Cities Bonus Plan permits visiting “extra” cities along your route without paying any additional fare. Fly Now . . . Pay Later Plan. Your entire group or individual members of it may be able to make an initial payment of as little as 10% of the total cost, spread the remainder out in convenient amounts over as long as 24 months.
Get In Touch With Your Authorized Pan Am Travel Agent Or The Pan Am Office Nearest You ...
Careful selection of the Pan Am travel plan or plans that best suit your situation can drastically cut your travel expenses to practically any destination. Ask your authorized Travel Agent or nearest Pan American office to help you choose the one, or more, that’s best for you and your people, that helps you go farther and do more — for less — via Pan Am.
4