MEXICO, CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
From Mexico in the north, south towards Panama and the Equator lie the lands of sunny fiesta, conquistadores, ancient Aztec and Mayan culture, cities untouched since the early days of “New Spain”. See the Brave Bulls . . . climb the ancient pyramids of Mexico . . . visit the sunny markets and lakes of Guatemala . . . the bargain shops and fun spots of Panama. In Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador ... in every Central American country . . . you’ll find the color, the fascination, the excitement of America’s tropical fiesta land.
Then — fabulous South America, where summer spends the winter, a delightful blend of modern luxury and lavish unspoiled beauty. Brilliant tropical skies. Sun-drenched, uncrowded beaches ringed by towering mountains. Gem-like cities in jungle settings. Carnivals, fiestas, all kinds of spectator sports. Gay Caballeros and flashing-eyed senoritas. Crystal blue lakes teeming with fish. You’ll find all this and more — much, much more.
There are many ways in which you can save. In addition to low-cost Rainbow Economy Service and cost-inclusive Pan Am Holidays, there are Special
Excursion Fares and specially-constructed Circle Trips to both Central America and South America. And Pan Am offers a wide choice of through jet services daily.
As for conventions, Mexico offers everything from Mayan ruins to renowned Acapulco, beaches, bullfights and blooming deserts. In Guatemala, your people can easily fish on either Atlantic or Pacific coast! Panama is an ideal and naturally hospitable convention site. Convention facilities for large groups are somewhat limited in Brazil, but may be perfectly adequate for your group — take the country’s fantastic natural attractions into account when making your decision. Much the same can be said for Peru — the attraction here being remarkably reasonable prices that may make it worth your while to look into special arrangements. Convention facilities are superb in Buenos Aires, the largest city south of the Equator . . . in Vina del Mar, the fabulous West Coast resort that is Chile’s best-equipped convention site . . . and in unique and attractive Montevideo.
AFRICA, INDIA, PAKISTAN AND THE MIDDLE EAST
Pan Am Jet Clipper flights extend to and through the Middle East and Africa. You can visit Istanbul, Alexandria, Cairo . . . Port Said, Luxor, Beirut . . . Damascus, Jerusalem, Amman . . . Baghdad and Nicosia. For an unusual travel experience, qualified groups of 25 or more can combine Transatlantic and Middle East Group Fares, enjoy both areas during a single trip abroad. In addition to the sample Jet economy group fares shown below (per person, from New York), a special Jet economy group fare — $535 per person — is available to Tel Aviv from New York or Boston, for 40 or more passengers traveling together round-trip.
Effective fare dates are the same as those given for Europe (see opposite page) except that no seasonal or weekend restrictions apply to the special Tel Aviv fare.
Teheran.............$736 Istanbul..............$507
Beirut..............$587 Baghdad...............$638
The Middle East is rich in exotic, off-beat convention sites. There are modern facilities in all cities . . . including Beirut, Cairo, Bethlehem, Teheran, and Istanbul. Pakistan’s best is Karachi. India’s, New Delhi and Calcutta.
1