HOW TO START YOUR GROUP ON A TRIP ABROAD
Don’t hesitate because your own travel experience is limited. For here’s all you have to do.
1 GET IN TOUCH WITH AN AUTHORIZED PAN AMERICAN TRAVEL AGENT or your nearest Pan Am office. You’ll have experienced counsel right from the start at no extra cost. Besides, Pan Am Representatives have many aids — booklets, folders, movies, posters — to help promote group travel.
2 START WITH A PLAN. Plan a trip to interest most of your members. Your Pan Am Representative has many “special interest tours” as well as general tours built around the most popular sightseeing areas available, some at sizable savings. One may serve your purpose. If not, he can adapt one or work up a special itinerary to meet your group’s requirements.
3 MAKE COPIES OF YOUR ITINERARY, for use in promoting your tour. Show dates you’ll leave and return, highlights in countries you’ll visit and time spent in each, cost, etc. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am can furnish timetables, fares, schedules, etc.
4 PREPARE YOUR PRESENTATION. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am Representative will probably suggest at least one movie of the places you’ll visit and help you arrange to run it. Pan American’s fine travel films in brilliant natural color and sound run about half an hour each.
He can furnish posters, too, folders, booklets, etc., on your destinations. Also special material... on conventions, for example, and pilgrimages, sports, and special events, as well as study opportunities abroad, international exhibits, fairs, festivals, etc. Use whatever you think might help you.
5 MAKE YOUR PRESENTATION. Arouse enthusiasm by presenting your suggestion at a meeting of all members. Enthusiasm is contagious — so give your presentation all the vigor and excitement it merits. Distribute copies of your suggested itinerary and the literature secured from your Travel Agent. Then explain the idea as a group effort that stems from the common interests of the members themselves.
6 TELL THE COST — EXPLAIN THE SAVINGS. If you’re taking advantage of Pan Am World-Wide Group Fares, point out the savings. On other arrangements, explain the 5% saving on Round Trip tickets. If you’re going by Rainbow economy service, explain the savings over other services. And if you’ll travel in an “off-season,” explain how the group saves — how they escape peak tourist crowds and enjoy better selections, better prices . . . even on take-home purchases.
7 EXPLAIN THE BENEFITS OF JET CLIPPER TRAVEL — talk about the little things that make the big difference . . . like Pan Am’s experience, over 105,000 flights across the Atlantic, 70,000 over the Pacific, more than 6,500 round the world. They’ll be interested in the superb service aloft, the complimentary meals, the cloud-soft reclining seats . . . and the fact there’s no tipping ever, on any Pan Am Clipper. Your Travel Agent or Pan Am office will gladly provide all the details you’ll need to answer any questions.
8 SUGGESTIONS ABOUT FINANCES. No doubt the financial side is up to your Ways and Means Committee but offer some suggestions. For example, each member might pay all or part of his or her expenses ... or the group can help out with surplus funds, if you have any, or with fund-raising activities. Mention how your members can “save up” . . . start a Travel Savings Account . . . collect “travel dues” at each meeting. Some employee groups often arrange to have savings withheld from pay and others are fortunate enough to receive subsidies from the Company Recreation Program.
9 EXPLAIN TRAVEL “ON CREDIT,” TOO. Most banks loan money for vacation trips, just as they do for purchasing cars and paying bills. And members of employee groups can often borrow from the Company credit union and repay at their leisure. Another convenient method is the Pan Am Pay Later Plan by which your members may pay as little as 10% down, with the balance spread over as long as 24 months.
Get the facts from your Travel Agent or Pan Am Representative and then tell the members exactly how much they would pay monthly.
10 ADJUST ITINERARY AND ARRANGE BOOKINGS. Since this is a group project, tailor the itinerary to suit the members of your group. After they decide on the final itinerary, you can make the travel arrangements through your Travel Agent who can handle Clipper bookings, hotel reservations and most of the other arrangements for you.