GROUPS LIKE THESE
GO ABROAD BY JET CLIPPER FOR A WONDERFUL TIME!
YOU TRAVEL
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE...
ANY TIME OF THE YEAR
The nice part of air travel by Pan American is that your group is not limited to any special season in taking its trip abroad. You’ll find travel bargains of one sort or another in effect throughout the year. Check with your Travel Agent or nearest Pan Am office.
Hence, though summer used to be the accepted vacation time, it’s not necessarily the time your group will find most desirable.
For example, you may wish to be there when specific sporting events, conventions, festivals, or other organized activities are taking place. You’ll find your authorized Pan Am Travel Agent has the latest information on special events around the world. He can also advise on the best places to enjoy activities that interest your group most.
So-called “off-season” travel is also something to keep in mind. The “off seasons” vary from region to region but all have these advantages in common. You can usually get a wider choice of accommodations, at better hotels, for lower rates . . . and you escape the tourist-season crowds.
Whatever you decide, plan your trip well in advance and members will usually be able to arrange for time off when they want it.
SOCIAL GROUPS, Garden Clubs, Bridge Clubs, Art Clubs, Music Clubs, Literary Clubs and others — find travel together not only broadening but exciting.
PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS attend international Conclaves and Meetings — exchange ideas and information with noted foreign authorities — visit the great libraries, museums, schools and universities noted in their field.
EMPLOYEE RECREATION GROUPS, many sponsored by their companies, often group-travel as part of their activity programs.
EDUCATIONAL GROUPS, teachers, students, or both often stay for a full summer course at some famous foreign university. Or travel for educational credit to one or many international destinations. Pan Am, through its Educational Department, has arranged many tours for such groups.
SPORTS GROUPS head for world-famous spots where the fishing, skating, skiing, or hunting is the finest.
CIVIC GROUPS, Chambers of Commerce and other Civic associations find they benefit immeasurably from the study of civic projects of all types — in cities all over the world.
GRANGE AND 4-H GROUPS attend world-famous Fairs and Cattle Shows, and visit model Poultry and Dairy Farms . . . travel to regions all over the world to observe at firsthand new or unusual agricultural methods.
LABOR UNION GROUPS attend international labor meetings and conventions — meet and exchange ideas with prominent labor leaders from other countries — observe, at first hand, working and living conditions abroad.
CHURCH GROUPS visit Rome, the Holy Land, famous shrines, or their missions all over the world.
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS attend World Conventions, Fairs and Exhibits—study foreign manufacturers’ products and methods — exchange ideas with leaders in their fields.
OTHER COMMON-INTEREST GROUPS tour homelands abroad, or visit places that tie in best with their historical, cultural, social or scientific interests.
NEXT...
HOW TO GET YOUR GROUP GOING