WHY AN OVERSEAS SITE MAY BE RIGHT FOR YOU ...
Should your organization’s next convention go overseas? Well, it depends on what you hope your meeting will accomplish. If your objectives are similar to those of the countless organizations that have held overseas conventions, sales meetings and conferences, it’s probably worth your while to consider the idea seriously.
For example, you can count on enthusiasm to run high when you announce that your meeting will be held overseas. Chances are, the pulse-quickening interest of a spot like Montego Bay or Paris will make this the best-attended convention you’ve ever held.
An overseas site will set this convention apart . . . in the minds of your group and in the public image. There is a memorable quality to conventions and meetings held in glamorous locations — a lasting impression of prestige which lends emphasis to the purpose of the meeting.
Your program will run more smoothly, for delegates will become more identified with the convention as a unit. The cheerful, semi-private atmosphere stimulates thinking, provides an opportunity for closer acquaintances among delegates.
Your group will get a warm reception overseas. Groups from the U.S. aren't old stuff to local officials, hotel executives and resort personnel overseas. Nevertheless, you’ll find them very experienced in arranging meetings and convention schedules ... in handling the countless details that can contribute so much to the success of your meeting. You’ll be delighted by their desire — and aptitude — for making your delegates comfortable. Their establishments are managed by English-speaking staffs and can be depended upon for top quality food and modern communications and convention facilities.
The cost? In most cases, an overseas convention needn’t be any more expensive than a comparable one held in the United States, even including transportation.
LET THE WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE HELP YOU PLAN YOUR OVERSEAS CONVENTION
Naturally, it takes considerable planning to run any successful meeting . . . whether at home or overseas.
And Pan Am’s help can be invaluable to you. As the World’s Most Experienced Airline, we’ve gained a tremendous fund of travel and resort knowhow . . . and, of course, a great deal of experience in the moving of groups.
This assistance — carefully coordinated through Pan Am offices in the U.S. and overseas — costs you nothing extra. In fact, Pan Am’s service may actually save you money at the same time it relieves you of time-consuming details.
A Pan Am Representative will be happy to discuss your convention plans with you at your convenience.
NEXT... HOW PAN AM CAN HELP YOU PLAN
■■■■
nm9