HOW TO OSE, PLAN AND ORGANIZE AN INCENTIVE TRAVEL PROGRAM
WHAT MAKES INCENTIVE TRAVEL WORK SO WELL...
Increased sales volume. Strengthened channels of distribution. Fewer industrial accidents. Increased output per man hour. What’s your objective and how can you best achieve it? Chances are, you’ll agree some added incentive is called for to stimulate your people to put out the extra effort that’s needed if your goal is to be realized.
There’s no other incentive quite like travel. No other can pull a man out of his tracks and set him off at a run quite so effectively. Travel reaches way down deep inside, appeals strongly to an elemental urge to adventure, to journey, to see far away places. No doubt, you’ve felt this yourself. And — let’s be frank — travel appeals to pride. There’s no question, today travel is a status symbol wielding a formidable influence among us all. Further, travel is an out-of-the-ordinary incentive that not only builds high initial enthusiasm but, because no one can forget a trip abroad, generates lasting enthusiasm with all the good effects that this implies.
In addition, the effect achieved is generally far out of proportion to the effort required of you to achieve it. Try it and see . . .
WHY BUSINESS IS USING INCENTIVE TRAVEL...
Today, more and more companies are using incentive travel as a business tool.
Because it works! A well-executed incentive travel program that failed to get substantial results has yet to be reported.
Because it’s economical! No trip costs a corporate cent until someone earns it. And earning a trip depends on accomplishing an objective, one that provides a direct or indirect profit increase sufficient to more than cover all costs involved.
Because it’s good publicity! Travel abroad is news. Items in local newspapers and trade publications build a company’s image, add to its winners’ prestige. Winners are goodwill ambassadors for the company.
Because it builds an in-company enthusiasm that lasts longer than that generated by other prizes. And because winners stay enthusiastic longer, there’s a better chance for their excitement to rub off on others.
Because it’s easy! Others do the work for you. You can have a firm specializing in Incentive Travel handle the whole operation . . . Pan Am works closely with many, can put you in touch with the best. Or if you prefer to do it yourself, Pan Am specialists are ready to map out complete details for a travel-incentive program that best suits your particular needs . . . and they’ll be happy to lend a hand every step of the way.
-------------------------------------------——
WHO USES TRAVEL AS AN INCENTIVE...
Among the growing number of companies regularly using travel abroad as an incentive in achieving corporate objectives are the following. In each case, Pan Am played an important part in the company’s Incentive Travel Program.
AC Spark Plug
American Motors Corporation Buick
Carrier Air Conditioning Chevrolet
Chrysler Corporation Connecticut General Life Insurance Fedders — Air Conditioning Ford Motor Co.
General Electric General Motors Gibson Refrigerator Great Lakes Mobile Homes Hotpoint
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Philco
Plymouth Motor Corporation RCA Whirlpool Sealy Mattress Westinghouse York Corporation
