eligible and how to become eligible, (3) basis of awards — what you have to do to get what, (4) reporting requirements — how performance is validated, (5) how and when travel will be taken. State full rules in first contest announcement.
Use teaser material to promote the theme in advance — but without revealing any of the facts of the contest. During the life of the contest, send promotional material to contestants regularly and frequently — with never a lapse of more than two weeks between contacts. Compute individual standings often and publicize to contestants. If interest slackens, think about inserting extra awards about midway through the contest. About three-quarters through, to keep those who seem unlikely to achieve the trip quota working, offer special secondary awards.
Allow no less than two weeks, no more than three months between the close of the contest and the trip. Winners need time to make arrangements, to prepare to travel . . . your company may need time for last minute details.
CHOOSING THE DESTINATION. Keep these factors in mind: (1) estimated size of group,
(2)	cost and availability of transportation to/from,
(3)	cost and availability of hotels (including facilities for meetings and meals), (4) cost and availability of destination activities, (5) destination shopping facilities, including “in bond”, “free port”, etc. considerations, and (6) climate and season.
Consider choosing a destination that ties in with your group’s particular interests. If you’re in the garment industry, for example, you may wish to send your people to Paris ... if in jewelry, to Switzerland ... if in the meat industry, to Argentina, etc. Recent popular incentive destinations include Bermuda, Dominican Republic, Europe, Haiti, Hawaii, Jamaica, Nassau, Puerto Rico. Your authorized Pan Am Travel Agent or Pan Am representative can give you complete information on all these points.
PROGRAM THEME. An incentive theme should get attention, tie in with your objective, be light and lively, indicate a challenge, suggest luxury, and finally, be capable of visual dramatization. Generally “home-grown” themes are better than stock ideas — tie in more closely with your sales objective. But a good “stock” theme is infinitely better
than a lifeless original. Incidentally, “corn” is no detriment.
Your theme might grow out of a company event — or your advertising slogan with a slight twist. The important thing is that it have enough possible uses — in mailings, posters, progress charts, etc. to stand up over the full length of your campaign.
If wives are to be included in an incentive trip — as they should be whenever possible — it often helps to develop a secondary theme that indicates the role you hope they’ll play. For example, if the main theme were “Break Par”, the secondary might be “Caddy for A Champion”.
THE KICKOFF MEETING. The more excite-
ment and impact that can be built into your kickoff
meeting, the more impressive will be the performance of your contestants. The successful kickoff meeting is “good theater.” Participants are made a part of the promotion from the start, partly through the effects of mass psychology. For once a man has laughed, cheered and rubbed elbows with other enthusiastic contestants, he has put his stamp of approval on the project. Through his direct participation, he has accepted the plan and subconsciously committed himself to boosting it.
Your incentive travel kickoff meeting is a special type of sales meeting —- the first act of a show in which your audience is encouraged to participate actively. And, like any theater presentation, your kickoff meeting must have drama, suspense, pace, excitement and comedy. Pan Am specialists are old hands at this . . . contact them for help.
And keep these factors in mind. The location: a hall large enough to hold everybody, small enough to provide a congenial atmosphere, convey an impression of peak attendance . . . and if possible, away from company property. Decorations: they should make your salesmen feel — the moment they enter the kickoff area — that they’re part of the exciting program that’s to come, that it’s their program, that no trouble has been spared in preparations. Invitations: issue them in top management’s name, and tie them into the theme. Skits and visual aids: your program must move fast, hold attention from start to finish. One rambling speech can seriously detract from the desired effect of the meeting. That’s why the best programs are invariably the products of intensive planning, writing, rewriting and rehearsal. Other factors to tie in, include costumes and favors, music, dinner. You’ll find your Pan Am District Sales Office ready, willing and extremely able to lend a hand from start to finish.
INFORMATION FOR TRAVELERS. To insure a successful trip, make sure your travelers receive complete information on all the following points. Pan Am will be happy to help you provide this information.
1 Transportation: how winners are to travel, how and when tickets will be made available, when and where groups are to assemble.