HERE’S HOW PAN AM GAN HELP...
... IN PLANNING Pan American has handled more overseas incentive travel promotions than any other airline in the world. Drawing directly on that experience, we can answer all your questions . . . about travel, destinations, facilities and costs . . . about the mechanics of contest operation. You’ll find your Pan Am Group Travel representative not only knows his business, but also knows how to relate his knowledge to your business. He’ll be glad to tell you about travel incentive programs in businesses similar to yours . . . how they were run, what they meant to the companies concerned — in profit dollars and in long-range prestige and employee morale values. And Pan Am will be happy to make contacts and to help with hotel and other arrangements at your chosen destination. The growing popularity of incentive travel has brought into existence an increasing number of organizations prepared to bring to this area truly professional handling. If you wish, Pan Am will be happy to make recommendations regarding these organizations and to put you in touch with the leaders in this field.	space for your message, handsome four-color posters. We can arrange for mailings to contestants from the destination site. And many other things, too numerous to list here. Happily, too, all these aids will put little strain on your program budget, many being available at no cost.
	... AND ON THE TRIP Pan Am will help you arrange special send-off facilities at the airport of departure . . . personnel to greet your guests, reserved lounge space and bar service where available, photographers for departure pictures, publicity releases and photos for home-town newspapers. In-flight services may vary slightly depending on your destination and class of service used, but generally include such things as special announcements over Clipper public address systems, the personal attention of stewards and stewardesses, bar service, specially printed menus for your group, delicious meals. And at the destination, Pan Am can help with the arranging of reception ceremonies, decorations and refreshments, ground transportation, hotel reservations . . . and help you plan a lively and attractive activities program.
... WITH PROMOTION The help Pan Am can give you here is almost unlimited. We can tell you what should be done and how to do it, or who will do it. We’ll provide color films for your kickoff meeting. We’ll help you run it, arrange for capable speakers to be present. We’ll provide at nominal cost all sorts of promotional materials — picture postcards, destination folders with	WHAT TO DO NEXT... There’ll undoubtedly be many more things you want to know before you start your Overseas Travel Incentive Program rolling. Perhaps before you even decide you’ll try one. And this is where your Travel Agent or Pan American representative comes in. He’ll be more than glad to answer any questions — entirely without obligation.