BIG STEP —THE PACIFIC
Preparatory to vaulting the Pacific, interest was purchased in China National Aviation Corporation, as an advance Asiatic foothold. In addition, two airlines in Alaska were acquired — with a Great Circle Route to the Orient in mind. Also, operational experience in the Arctic could be valuable background against the day when a route to Europe might bridge the Polar Ice Cap.
Pan American’s approach to flight of the Great Oceans utilized the technical and operative knowledge gained in Latin America. With its eye on both oceans, Pan Am spelled out the type of aircraft needed — a flying boat with speed in excess of 120 miles-per-hour, capable of vast stretches of ocean flying, even against headwinds. Sikorsky came up with an answer in the S-42 — a perfected and greatly enlarged version of the famous S-40. Glenn L. Martin produced the M-130, a majestic ocean-passenger carrier with a range of 2,000 miles, a dependable challenger for either the Atlantic or the Pacific.
Strung across the Pacific was a series of U. S. islands — stepping stones that an airline might use to the Continent of Asia. Hawaii first, then Midway, Wake, Guam, and Manila in the Philippines. On March 27, 1935 the chartered steamship North Haven sailed from San Francisco. On board were the makings of two complete villages, five air bases, 250,000 gallons of fuel, 44 airline technicians, a construction crew of 74, food for all — plus construction equipment and machinery. 1,018,897 items in all. In four months, this desolate island chain was changed into fully functioning operational bases for an air route to the Far East.
As each segment of the route was completed, the Sikorsky S-42 followed behind, conducting survey flights. On November 22, 1935 the huge Martin M-130 “China Clipper” flew over San Francisco’s Golden Gate outward bound on the first scheduled flight across the Pacific. One year later the final leg to Hong Kong was completed and the system now stood at 40,500 route miles.
The pioneers of Pan Am were ready to tackle the Atlantic.
10