Pam American
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
Belili Li rig
You’re in another world altogether once you start out from Shannon to see for yourself if Ireland’s all that they claim.
Yet it’s not her beauty alone, unspoiled as it is, with fields greener and lakes grander than you dared to expect. No. It’s the sheltered feeling .	. and her
unhurried way of looking at life . . . her friendly manner and good humor . . . and the language she speaks with a rhythm distinctly her own. Her landscape, too . . . moody, smiling, or brooding on the past. And the air all around you . . . nostalgic with wood smoke, pungent from bogs or fresh and clean off the sea. For even in mid-Ireland you’re not 60 miles from the shore.
Her folklore and history follow you from castles and towers, out along highways and country boreens, through sleepy towns, Georgian cities and white-walled farms. And saints like Patrick and Kevin and heroes like Bora and Emmet and O’Connell seem always near whether you’re at the fairs and processions and shrines or out at the races or sports.
There’s exploring here to last you a lifetime. But since Ireland’s smaller than Maine, everything’s near and easy to reach. And the time saved by Clipper means much more time for all you’ve dreamed of doing—not only in Ireland but all Europe as well.
A scene from the golf course overlooking Glengariff Bay in Cork.
Pan Amer f can	W
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
H-74-
253-100
FIRST by CLIPPER
There’s a MAN to HELP YOU PLAN
i our Pan Am Travel Agent keeps up to date on European travel regulations and on accommodations and local conditions in Ireland. As a result, he can not only relieve you of details like reservations and bookings and sightseeing trips, but he can make sure you see and do more in Ireland and the rest of Europe. And he can probably save you money; too, since he’s familiar with such budget helpers as low-cost Rainbow Service and any inexpensive Pan Am Holidays available. Yet you pay no more for his experience and professional service. So — before you cross the sea to Ireland, start planning by seeing your Pan American Travel Agent.