O o ft to travel over the sea? When you've the wings of a Clipper — to whisk you to Ireland in no time at all? And it's so smooth . .. so swift... this Pan Am road you follow... you'll be in Shannon before you know it. For the Clipper's a grand way to travel, with your cabin so snug and warm in winter and air conditioned in summer. And relaxing's so easy when you've a big lounge chair you can adjust to sightsee or nap or maybe read or play cards . . . and when you've attendants to wait on you and bring pillows or blankets or magazines or maybe something to eat or to drink.
WHO’D BE WISHING FOR
VE by LOW-COST RAINBOW
Rainbow Clipper Tourist Service gives you history-making low fares to Europe . . . lower still during Thrift Season, between November and March. Yet you fly in specially built Super-6 Clippers, with the speed and dependability of Pan Am’s luxury flights. You sleep on a reclining lounge chair, with pillow and blankets . . . enjoy delicious meals in flight . . . and have the peace of mind knowing Clippers have made over 40,000 transatlantic flights and that experienced personnel are planning and controlling every move your Clipper will make.
Or TAKE THE PRESIDENT
It’s luxury service on Double-Decked “Strato” Clippers ... at the low regular fare. You’ll stroll “downstairs” to the lower lounge, enjoy full-course meals by Maxim’s of Paris and rest comfortably in your soft reclining chair. Yet there’s no extra charge. And, of course, no tipping ever on Clippers.
SEE ALL EUROPE by CLIPPER
Clipper speed gives you more time for the rest of Europe, too. For example, when you've torn yourself away from Ireland, you can find a Clipper again at Shannon, of course, or Glasgow or London, whichever you're nearest. Or, if you find yourself in Paris or Amsterdam or any of 20 places in Europe, there's still a Clipper for continuing your travels. Returning, come back via Shannon . . . or see more of Europe via Pan Am's southern Gateway . . . lively Lisbon. For comfort, speed and savings ... to Ireland and back . . . The Clipper’s the way to go.