WHO CAN RESIST THE CALL:
come Back to emu
Go from BLARNEY to KILLARNEY
In the south, Cork’s a must. You’ll kiss the Blarney Stone and listen to the Bells of Shandon. But there’s much in Ireland’s third largest city and the rest of the County. Cobh’s fine harbor and St. Colman’s Cathedral, with its 42-bell carillon. Also Kinsdale, where William Penn lived, and Cross-haven, for the home of Sir Walter Raleigh. Here too is Glengariff in a tropical setting. Many claim it’s Ireland’s most beautiful spot.
In Kerry, linger at Killarney and the lakes and mountains that inspired poets like Wordsworth and Tennyson. Get to know them from a jaunting car with a friendly and eloquent jarvey. Explore the nearby Gap of Dunloe on a pony and visit Ross Castle and Killorgin, with its 3-day fair. At Tralee, see the clear crystal fountain described in the song and, at Parknasilla, discover the South Pacific, complete with palm trees.
Who can ever forget the thatched roofs and roses and the bright whitewashed walls?
*
From SHANNON and GALWA Y to DEAR OLD DONEGAL
Leaving your Clipper at Shannon, you’re surrounded by timeless contrasts . . . the romantic river itself and the modern hydroelectric project . .. . the 12th century abbey at Ennis and Ireland’s oldest * city, Limerick. And, in Clare, you’ll find Lisdoon-varna, Ireland’s top health spa and a popular resort, and the rugged Cliffs of Moher where you’ll gaze straight down at the crashing Atlantic 600 feet below.
Make Galway your center for the Golden West that’s a fisherman’s paradise. It’s the City of Tribes, with traces of Spain and even a legend that Columbus enroute to America anchored here for a Galway man. Explore the town and the Bay that Crosby sings about. Then steamer out to the Aran Islands to see 1800-year-old forts there and hardy fishermen in their lightweight curraghs. A colorful, fascinating section . . . here and Connemara . . . since the people cling to their ancient culture and Gaelic language.
Mayo’s lovely but if you come with the July pilgrims to climb Croagh Patrick, be ready to do it barefoot. In Sligo, you’re in the country Yeats made famous, particularly lovely Innisfree. And, to learn what they mean about Donegal’s soft unreal color, wait till after a storm when magic light bathes the hills and stone walls. Visit Bundoran, the popular resort, and Donegal town, where the Annals of the 4 Masters were compiled. And, of course, Lough Derg. For everyone goes out to the rocky island, St. Patrick’s Purgatory, Ireland’s most famous shrine.
With unspoiled settings like Lough Corrib in Galway, small wonder Ireland casts such a spell.
The NORTH . . . of BELFAST and the BARD of ARMAGH
To the Londonderry Air, step into Northern Ireland. Pose on Derry’s 25-foot walls beside the cannon of the 105-day siege. Stained glass windows of Guildhall tell you Derry’s 1400-year history. Try the champion golf course at Castlerock and head for the awe-inspiring Giant’s Causeway, wonder of the world, 40,000 basaltic lava columns, mostly six-sided and mathematically precise. For breath-catching scenery, drive by Antrim’s cliff wall and sea along the 80-mile road Thackeray called “one of the most noble and gallant works’’. Visit the Glens of Antrim to photo Ireland’s greatest Tower amid a miniature Switzerland. And if you’re quick to a dare, cross the bridge near Portrush. It’s made of 9-inch boards on cable and two rope rails, with the roaring Atlantic rushing and swirling below.
Belfast bustles with the world’s largest shipyard and some of its largest rope, linen and tobacco factories. But don’t miss the Parliament buildings at Stormont Park . . . Queen’s University ... or the Municipal Gallery’s McKelvy portraits of the 13 U. S. Presidents of Irish descent. You’ll find many charming towns in old County Down — also Bangor, a resort with everything. In Armagh, visit the cathedral where St. Patrick built his first church in 445 . . . and nearby, the grave of Brian Boru, who defeated the Danes in 1014. After leaving the North, visit the lakelands . . . County Offaly, for Clonmac-noise, most famous monastic school of all, with its Towers, church ruins and sculptured cross 15 feet high. And over in Westmeath, near Athlone, roam the nostalgic Lissoy countryside and identify places Goldsmith used in his Deserted Village.
HEIGH HO! for SPORTS and FOOD
Fancy the horses? They raise champs here ... 31 winners, for example, out of 45 runnings of the English Grand National. And you’ve flat racing and steeplechasing, hunt meets, and Dublin’s famed Horse Show at the world’s finest show-grounds. Like to fish? You’ll find 2000 rivers and lakes . . . biting, fighting salmon and trout. Deep-sea angling and good rough shooting, too. Over 250 golf courses. Boating and bathing along 2100 miles of coast. And fine action in Gaelic football and hurling. As for food, ask any visiting Englishman about the beef and steaks, the chops, bacon and vegetables. Game and sea food, too, like Dublin Bay prawns, fine tea and the smooth liqueur called Irish Mist. But before boarding your Clipper for home, be ready for a shopping spree at Shannon Airport. It’s a customs free port, with bargains you’ve dreamed about.
The Custom House, one of Dublin's great contributions to 18th century architecture, is decorated by Ireland's greatest sculptor.
Traveling clockwise round Ireland, you’ll head for Glendalough, 30 miles from Dublin, to see the 110-ft. Round Tower and 13-centuries-old Oratory, St. Kevin’s Kitchen. You’ll go on to the Vale of Avoca of Moore’s famous song . . . visit Avondale, home of Parnell . . . and if it’s summer, enjoy Greystones, the resort, and the great Wicklow Regatta. In County Wexford you’ll explore Johnston Castle and the bird sanctuary out on Saltee Island . . . and in Waterford, Reginald’s Tower that Danes built and Normans captured. Even if Tipperary were a long way to go, you’d say ’twas worth it to see the great lonely Rock of Cashel, the city fortress of the Kings of Munster, Ireland’s greatest group of ancient buildings. Have plenty of film ready for the 10th Century Round Tower and remains of King Cor-mac’s Chapel, consecrated in 1134.
UN
LOW
TAKE TOURS . . . or RENT a CAR or BIKE
They come to Dublin from round the world for the world's greatest outdoor Horse Show.
DUBLIN'S DIFFERENT and FRIENDLY
Atop Nelson Pillar, her parks, squares and quays remind you of Paris. But below on wide O’Connell Street she’s her nostalgic self. Head for Trinity College and the fabulous 7th century Book of Kells. Or tour Guinness, the world’s largest brewery. Shop for tweeds and Belleek, linens and laces along Grafton Street where Shelley and Sheridan lived. Browse among Dublin’s bookstalls . . . visit Christchurch, of Norman days ... St. Patrick’s, where Dean Swift preached and he and “Stella” are buried. See the homes of O’Connell and Emmet, the birthplaces of Shaw and Joyce. For local color, try Moore Street where they trade outdoors. And drop into the pubs for small talk as famous as Irish whiskey.
Dublin’s been ahead of her time, too. For here’s the world’s first maternity hospital and first Chamber of Commerce, both pre-dating Washington’s inaugural . . . and Great Britain’s first Gallery of Modern Art. And Phoenix, the largest enclosed park in the world. Architecturally, Dublin has some of the 18th century’s greatest work. Visit Parnell and Fitzwilliam squares for Georgian mansions, with ceilings by Kauffman and mantels by Bossi. And for some of Europe’s finest buildings, see the 375-foot long Custom House by the Liffey River and the Old Parliament Building, with its curved windowless facade overlooking College Green.
Even if drama isn’t your forte, you’ll head for the renowned Gate Theatre .. . and, of course, the Abbey of Synge, O’Casey and Barry Fitzgerald. Dublin’s musical importance predates 1680. So, look for ballet, opera and musicals . . . Dublin’s Symphony .. . the Feis Ceoil that produced McCormack ... and the only Palestrina Choir outside Rome. But don’t neglect the National Museum’s world-famous Irish antiquities . . . you’ll trace Ireland’s history through Normans and Vikings and Celtic tribes back to the Stone and Bronze Ages. Also, see the National Gallery’s famous Old Masters and the world’s only Heraldic Museum in historic Dublin Castle.