Pan Am—Easy Going to Switzerland and Beyond!
Take in the Real Switzerland in an Avis Car!
Avis Makes It Easy to See Switzerland
m
i ,«
Pan Am’s Non-Stop to Switzerland & Europe Is So Easy.
Your Choice of Service
Enjoy the kind of attention to your needs that has long been a Pan Am tradition. A 57-year tradition of service rendered by ourflight crews who know the quality of service you expect en-
One Ticket—One Check-in
Travel with Pan Am on your next vacation and see how easy life can be. With one ticket, one check-in and one baggage claim convenience, you’ll find flying one of the most pleasant parts of your trip. And your connecting Pan Am flight is never more than a few steps away with convenient connecting schedules so you can get where you want to go in less time. You can't beat it.
747: The World’s Most Preferred Aircraft
Pan Am 747’s are the choice of experienced travelers the world over. You’ll fly them across the Atlantic to Zürich and on selected long distance routes throughout our network.
route. Whether you prefer our coach service, which is perhaps one of the best buys in the skies, or the amenities of our Clipper® Class business section, or the luxury of our First Class Sleeperette® Service, you can be sure of superior service all the way.
Clipper® Class, our private section business class, is quiet, restful. Ideal tor relaxing or reviewing some last-minute details. Seating is arranged in groups of two and you’re never more than one seat from the aisle. The menus feature exceptional entrees and cocktails, and stereo headsets are complimentary.
First Class Service features our new leather and sheepskin Sleeperette® Seat that is cushiony soft with a greater recline so you can
stretch out to sleep or relax in the luxury of Pan Am’s spacious, tastefully appointed First Class Cabin.
Pan Am Service to Switzerland from 21 Cities in the U.S.
Pan Am provides connecting service from N.Y. to Zurich, Switzerland, from 21 U.S. cities listed below.
New York
^7
Direct Service to Zurich via New York from:
Austin	Dallas/Ft Worth	Nashville	San Antonio
Boston	Detroit	Orlando	San Francisco
Charlotte	Houston	Philadelphia	Tampa/St. Pete
Chicago	Indianapolis	Pittsburgh	Washington, DC
Cincinnati Cleveland	Los Angeles	Raliegh/Durham	Washington
Expanded Service with Pan Am Express
With Pan Am Express, you can fly directly to Pan Am's worldport at JFK from 14 major northeastern cities. There, you can connect quickly and easily with Pan Am’s flights to Zürich and the rest of the world as well as selected destinations in the U.S.

1987 Fly/Drive Rates that Put You “On The Road."
When you fly Pan Am to Switzerland, you qualify for special car rental rates. You can arrange for you r car as easily as you book you r airline seat.
The only thing you have to do is make your reservation for an Avis car before leaving the United States and, of course, relax and enjoy your Pan Am flight across the Atlantic. Rentals on this program may be made at any airport in Switzerland served by Pan Am, as well as any other Avis rental location in Switzerland.
How and When to Book your Avis Car:
ONE CALL DOES IT ALL.
■	Your Avis car must be reserved through Pan Am no later than two days prior to departure.
■	When placing your reservation, be sure to ask for the Switzerland “On The Road” Fly/Drive program.
■	As an extra bonus, Avis offers a FREE Personally Yours itinerary. Make sure you reserve it 14 days in advance.
Switzerland Rates (Guaranteed in Francs)
Rate Code: CR		5, 6 or 7 Days		Additional Days	
Car Group	Car Make	Swiss Franc US $		Swiss Franc US $	
I	Fiat Panda	294	$191	42	$27
A	Opel Corsa	329	213	47	30
B	Opel Kadett	385	250	55	35
C	Opel Ascona	469	305	67	44
D	Ford Orion (A)	896	582	128	83
E	Ford Scorpio (A)	1169	760	167	109
F	BMW 318i	1589	1033	227	148
Avis features GM/Opel cars
1 US$=SFR 1.539, January 19,1987 (A) Automatic Transmission Rates valid April 1-October31,1987.
Rates quoted in Swiss Francs. U.S. dollar rates shown for GUIDANCE ONLY.
Rates do not include Collision Damage Waiver (CDW), Personal Accident Insurance (PAI), any applicable one-way service fee or refueling service charge.
The Avis Fleet is One of the Largest in Europe to Serve Your Travel Needs.
OPEL	Number of Doors: 4, Number of Seats: 4/5
KAQETT	Trunk Space: 12.0 cu. ft.; 3/4 suitcases
Fuel Capacity: 11.4 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 26 MPG
FIAT PANDA Number of Doors: 2, Number of Seats: 4	FORD
Trunk Space: 10.0 cu. ft.; 3 suitcases	SCORPIO
Fuel Capacity: 7.8 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 40 MPG
Number of Doors: 4, Number of Seats: 5 Trunk Space: 14.3 cu. ft.; 4 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 15.4 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 19 MPG
OPEL CORSA
Number of Doors: 3, Number of Seats: 4 Trunk Space: 9.5 cu. ft.; 3 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 11.4 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 31 MPG
BMW 3201 Number of Doors: 2/4, Number of Seats: 4/5 Trunk Space: 16.0 cu. ft.; 4/5 suitcases Fuel Capacity: 15.98 U.S. gallons Approximate Fuel Consumption: 24 MPG
Personally Yours helps make the most out of your time in Switzerland!
Personally Yours is a remarkable new customized travel planning service offered FREE to Avis Rent A Car customers in Switzerland. Whether you are fascinated by Swiss folklore or enraptured by the castles and palaces in Switzerland, Personally Yours gives a complete touring itinerary individually tailored to your own special interests.
Your Personally Yours Customized Itinerary:
Just tell us which two categories you are most interested in out of the 8 categories in Switzerland. We enter this information into our computer along with data on the length of your visit. You receive acustomized itinerary and a detailed guide to popular attractions in your selected categories.
The itinerary also suggests outstanding inns, hotels and restaurants en route.
See the special attractions and features only the natives would know about.
Choose from the 8 interest areas
in Switzerland:
•	Highlights of Switzerland: includes all the most popular sights in the country.
•	Undiscovered Switzerland: with its “insider’s insight" is a pleasant surprise, especially if you are revisiting the country.
•	History of Switzerland: probes the back ground and the past to what you will see enroute.
•	Castles and Palaces: includes the region’s most interesting and historic buildings.
•	Antiques: features the country’s best antique shopping prepared by experts.
•	Parks and Gardens: is a must for nature lovers and gardeners.
•	Museums: Includes some of the world’s most famous museums.
•	Shopping and Crafts: provides all the Information necessary to find those “buys" Switzerland is noted for.
Here’s how to get a Free Personally Yours Computer-Generated Itinerary:
Personally Yours is offered FREE to you when you rent from Avis while visiting Switzerland. Contact your travel agent or call Avis Reservations Office at 1-800-331-1084.
After providing the reservation information, simply request a Personally Yours itinerary. You will need to provide the following information:
•	Your name, address & telephone number.
•	Name of accompanying traveler, where applicable. (Itinerary can be personalized with two travelers’ names.)
•	The date rental is to begin, renting location and length of rental.
•	Specify one or two interests of your choice in Switzerland.
AVIS