Escape to the Wonders of Switzerland!
I
AVIS
Terms and Conditions
This Avis rates in this brochure are available only when you fly Pan Am across the Atlantic in either direction and may only be reserved in the United States.
The Avis-Pan Am car rental rates are only obtainable if reserved with Avis in the U.S. A. prior to departure.
Car reservations will only be confirmed by car group and not be made within a car group.
The rates include unlimited miles/kilometers, maintenance and oil. Rates also include automobile liability insurance in accordance with applicable law and the terms of the rental agreement. I n the event of the car being involved in a collision, Avis will assume the cost of damage except that the
renter will be required to pay an amount towards the cost of repair, which varies from country to country. This requirement will be waived if the renter elects to pay an additional Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) fee. Personal Accident Insurance (PAI) is also available for a nominal fee.
The rates do not include local sales tax, CDW, PAI or refueling service
Prepayment for the car rental is not required. You pay directly to Avis at time of rental.
For payment other than by Avis-honored charge card, a deposit will be required at time of rental to cover anticipated rental charges, as well as local sales tax, CDW, PAI and
refueling service. Any balance of deposit will be refunded at termination of rental.
Driver must have a valid Driver's License in effect for at least one year and present it to Avis at commencement of rental. Renter's minimum age is 25 years.
Travel Agent Information
To access more Information about the Avis/Pan Am Fly/Drive Program, code “Zl” in your CRT and access KEYWORD ''PA."
Avis provides complete information and booking instructions for automated systems.
ON THE ROAD In Switzerland
AVIS
Ari
©1987 Avis Rent A Car System, Inc., Avis®
Printed in U.S.A.
Don’t Delay—Reserve Today
Contact Your Travel Consultant who will arrange your Fly/Drive with Pan Am or call Pan Am toll-free at
1-800-221-1111
Your Travel Consultant
Avis Features GM Cars OPEL KADETT