YOU'VE SO MANY REASONS FOR GOING
'«Hi
OREST BRITAIN
AND
You could spend all your time in London alone, starting with Westminster Abbey or Buckingham Palace. Or in the Lake District, famed Canterbury or Oxford. Perhaps in Edinburgh and the land of Loch Lomond . . . in Dublin or Belfast. You’ll attend the Festivals, Old Vic, Abbey, Gate and Shakespeare Memorial Theatres . . . and find bargains in silver, Scottish and Irish tweeds, cashmere sweaters and socks, and Irish linen and lace.
Destination of many . . . and a popular route to the continent. England and Ireland, Scotland and Wales have an appeal hard to resist. The lovely countryside is rich in pageantry, gracious traditions and quiet friendly people.
Ageless London’s a match for your mood whatever it is . . . from a new play or gay club to a rendezvous with a thousand yesteryears, literary and historic. The English seaside towns and tiny villages and those Dickensian inns with nostalgic names and unique
signs are lovelier than you remember or ever imagined. Up north, you’ll swing through Bonnie Scotland, ’mid history mixed with legend to the tempo of pipers wearing kilts and, of course, Wales always beckons with her castles and cottages and virile songs.
Ireland’s another world altogether, rich in witty rhythmic speech and heroes fondly remembered. Dublin delights with her Book of Kells and Georgian buildings . , . and who can pass up Killarney, Galway Bay, Giant’s Causeway and Innisfree?
Service to Europe Faster,
More Frequent than Ever
Pan American continues to expand its great transatlantic service—keeping pace with the popularity of the Clippers. Present schedules offer several departures every day to Europe—far more each week in both first-class and tourist service than on any other airline. So you have more flights to choose from, on Pan American . . . faster Clipper service, too, including non-stop Super-7 Clippers,* the fastest piston-powered passenger planes in the world.
*Effective Mid-Summer, 1956
Visit Extra Cities at No Extra Fare
While Pan American can fly you directly to your destination without changing planes, it can also fly you indirectly via many extra cities, adding a wonderful "Travel Bonus." Instead of limiting yourself to a single Clipper destination on the continent, you can enjoy visits in additional cities, often quite far off the direct route, yet pay the same Round Trip fare as you would to your original destination.
For example, if you are heading for Rome, you can enjoy visits in as many as 14 Extra Cities — some of them national capitals, some famous resorts — all of them fascinating. You can go via one European gateway and return through another — take your choice of London, Paris, Glasgow, Shannon or Lisbon. Pan American flies to Africa, the Middle East and the Orient too, and all the way Round the World.
Your PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent can tell you of the various routings and help you plan to include Extra Cities on your Clipper trip to Europe.
Continued on Page 7.