It’s hard to resist Portugal’s luxurious beaches and quaint villages . . . Lisbon, Coimbra and its university in the mountains, Setubal and Oporto by the sea. Spain slows you down and you love it. Particularly places like the Alhambra and El Escorial, Seville, Valencia and Granada that you’ve read and sung about. And everywhere you go music, fiestas and famous art, castles, cathedrals and reminders of Moorish yesterdays.
Portugal’s a pleasant surprise, with her vineyards and fishing villages, mosaic artistry and friendly people. Lisbon’s the continental crossroad, vibrant, multi-lingual, smart . . . and at its great, nearby coast resort, Estoril, you’ll join kings and nobles at the famous International Casino . . . and just a hundred miles away is the shrine of Fatima.
You’ll find your castle in Spain amid fiestas, flamenco-dancing gypsies and exciting bullfights, reliving the days of Don Quixote and the Spanish Armada. Spain’s famous for her food and sherry wines, as well as her Bay of Biscay, Moorish architecture and medieval towns like Toledo and Granada . . . her inexhaustible art and pilgrimage centers dating back to the Apostles. Barcelona on the Mediterranean is cosmopolitan, restless . . . with its great promenade lined with bird and flower shops . . . the fascinating Gothic Quarter, and wonderful seaside restaurants. And, of course, Madrid’s maravilloso, so friendly and natural. . . everyone fives outdoors and stays up late at the famous Retiro Park, theatres or night clubs . . . and the Prado boasts some of the world’s finest paintings.
SPAIN
AND
PORTUGAL
Pan Am, you know, was the first across the Atlantic . . . just as it was first across the Pacific, Round the World and throughout Latin America. And it has the unequaled record of 50,000 transatlantic flights, as well as 35,000 transpacific flights, 37,000 Equator Crossings and 2,500 Round the World trips.
Then, too Pan Am offers the Pay Later Plan convenience of traveling to Europe now and paying for your trip over a period of time. Last but not least, people want to travel with the Leader . . . the airline that carries 28% of all air-and-seaborne travel to and from the continental United States . . . twice that of all other U. S. airlines combined.
Let Your Travel Agent Help You Plan
To make sure you see and do all the things you’ve been thinking about in Europe, you’ll probably want to consult an authorized Pan American Travel Agent. His advice and experience can be invaluable in planning your itinerary and handling your Clipper bookings, hotel accommodations, sightseeing and other travel arrangements.
Most of his services cost you nothing and he may even help you save money. With his knowledge of Clipper schedules and routings, he can help you take full advantage of alternate Gateways and Pan Am’s "Travel Bonus” of Extra-City Stopovers . . . famous Rainbow service at low Clipper Tourist fares . . . the benefits of the Family Fare Plan . . . and economical cost-inclusive tours such as the popular Pan Am Holidays.
What’s more, he can make sure you start for Europe now for he can arrange your trip on Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan and let you pay for it out of income in convenient amounts after you return. So — start planning by visiting him soon. Why not see him today!
I To relive your Clipper trip for years to come, be sure to take your camera along.
Clippers Fly on Bulova Time.
Pa/v Amer/cas World Airways
THE SYSTEM OF THE FLYING CLIPPERS