HOW TO FEEL AT HOME ON HIGH
u’ll never know what Clipper travel can be until you sit back in a ¡ustable chair with the world at your feet and your head in the clouds. Until you feel pent-up tensions fade away and see how completely you relax in the attractive sound-proof Clipper Cabin that’s so warm in winter, so comfortably air-conditioned in summer. Until you actually fly above the weather and discover how smooth ocean crossings can be all the year round. And even then you’d probably have to glance down at the toy world drifting by to convince yourself that you’re heading for Europe at 5 miles or more a minute. Comfortable? You couldn’t be more so in your own home. You relax, while cabin attendants are always ready to see to your needs. There’s no extra charge for the delicious full-course meals, you know . . . and no tipping either.
1 ravelers prefer to go to Europe by Clipper for many reasons. Pan American’s unmatched experience, for example . . . frequency of Clipper flights, continually being increased . . . alternate routings possible . . . the convenience of Pan Am’s handy departure points. Not to mention Pan Am’s Pay Later Plan which permits you to pay for your trip over a period of time.
Then, too, Pan American serves so many points in Europe, many of them direct with no change of plane: Shannon, Glasgow, London, Amsterdam, Hamburg, Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki, Paris, Brussels, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Berlin, Lisbon, Barcelona, Nice, Rome, Ankara, Istanbul, Keflavik, Hanover, Stuttgart, Munich, Vienna. And, of course, Clipper connections can be made to Africa, the Middle East, the Orient and all the way Round The World.
What’s more, Pan Am not only offers more flights to Europe but gives you a choice of services. And on both the money-saving Rainbow and the luxurious regular-fare President you’ll enjoy delicious complimentary meals and. practically everything you can think of in the way of travel comfort — reading material, pillows and blankets, Shaving and game kits, as well as Baby and Medical Kits, and Bassinets which you can reserve in advance.
THE RAINBOW
This outstanding Clipper service brings European travel within reach of anyone’s budget because it costs no more than ordinary Tourist service. Yet it features some of the newest, finest and fastest airliners in Pan Am’s world-wide Clipper fleet, including the popular Super-6 Clippers and the brand new Super-7 Clippers.* Bar service is available at nominal charge. *Effective Mid-Summer, 1956
THE PRESIDENT
Pan American’s great First Class service aboard Super-6 Clippers, Super-7 Clippers and Super Strato-cruisers with lower deck lounge. It features fewer passengers and extra attendants, providing much more room and greater comfort per passenger ... magnificent 7-course meals by Maxim’s . . . Sleeperette service on most flights . . . full length berths at extra cost... complimentary bar service . . . and handy overnight bags.
THE PRESIDENT SPECIAL —This superb, extra-fare Pan American service is the world’s most luxurious. The favorite of discriminating travelers, it features Super Stratocruisers with the famous lower-deck lounges . . . 7-course champagne dinner . . . complimentary bar service. Orchids and perfume for the ladies . . . handy overnight bags . . . engraved personal luggage tags. Choice of Sleeperette service or, at extra cost, a full length, foam-soft berth. Limited passenger list . . . extra attendants.