Italy’s tops with tourists. You could spend all your time in Rome, exploring the Appian Way, the Colosseum, the Catacombs, the Vatican. Rome’s so gracious about her reminders of 25 centuries . . . so sophisticated in her day and night life ... so exciting with her popular handcrafts and high fashion designs that have Paris coutouriers pouting. And there’s the rest of Italy . . . Florence of the Renaissance, Venice, the Bay of Naples, idyllic Capri and Bologna’s wonderful restaurants.
Choose Nice or Barcelona for your Riviera headquarters. Nice, largest, most metropolitan of the coast resorts, has excellent hotels and is perfect for daily forays to Cannes, the Cap d’Antibes, Juan-les-Pins, Monte Carlo. Barcelona nestles between the Spanish Riviera and the spectacular castle-topped Costa Brava . . . and it’s only an hour by air to the magic of Mallorca among the Balearic Islands where prices are surprisingly low. And, on the Italian Riviera, who can resist San Remo with its luxurious hotels and Casino, or Portofmo, favorite of the international set.
	W
1 ¿1, v j	■ ■ -rygv- .3»
19«^ trim	SKEiEimW/ -tm
You're an “Expected Guest" on a Cost-Inclusive Pan Am Holiday Tour
One of the best ways to see Europe is on a cost-inclusive Pan Am Holiday tour. On these pre-arranged itineraries you travel in a congenial escorted group, or if you prefer, independently, footloose and fancy-free, with all accommodations and arrangements made for you in advance. You travel in famous Clipper style, stay at excellent hotels, sightsee in comfortable buses or private cars. Yet you’ve plenty of time for shopping and getting around on your own. And while you have an opportunity to sample cuisines of the renowned restaurants of your choice, you enjoy added savings, too, since many meals are included in the low price of these money-saving Pan Am Holidays.
There are many of these tours available ... from 2 weeks to a month and more . . . covering just one country or several, or the entire continent. Your PAA office or Pan Am Travel Agent can furnish details and help you choose or adapt one of these pre-arranged Pan Am Holiday Tours to fit your purse and purpose.
The Popular NEW HORIZONS Makes a Perfect Travel Guide
The handy pocket edition of NEW HORIZONS covers more than 1000 places on six continents. Its 576 pages tell what to see and wear and bring back . . . where to stay and dine . . . everything from local climate and currency to tipping and laundry facilities. Endorsed by Lowell Thomas and James A. Michener, NEW HORIZONS is now part of the State Department’s Travel Kit for its overseas personnel. Only $1.00 at any bookstore, PAA office or Travel Agent.
Why is Pan American the most popular Transatlantic Airline?
You could name many reasons: frequent schedules to all 6 continents, varied routings and alternate gateways, choice of services and accommodations. But perhaps the most important reasons are Pan Am’s experience and American know-how, the wonderful Clipper food and superb service you receive.
Continued on Page 11.
Your favorite Riviera haunt may be a club or casino, a modest pension or luxury hotel bustling with headliners. You’ll shop, savor the fine Italian food and sip Caffe Espresso at sidewalk cafes amid a linguistic free-for-all. You’ll explore Sorrento, Pompeii, Sicily and Pisa ... see Milan’s cathedral, La Scala and Da Vinci’s “Last Supper” ... and, at Cortina d’Ampezzo, find the 1956 Winter Olympics site equally famous as a summer resort.