THE
OF THE
CONTINENT
If you don’t come via the British Isles, you may do so via Paris, or through Portugal or Spain. Or start in the Low Countries ... in Germany or Austria. Clippers serve them all — direct. Partial to the Arts? Start with the Louvre, the Flemish and Dutch Masters . . . the great cathedrals . . . music festivals like Salzburg. See history being made in Bonn and Berlin. Or brush elbows with yesterday at Versailles and Waterloo and then retrace 2000 years in Cologne or Paris.
For scenery, how about a landscape of windmills and rainbows of tulips . . . medieval towns like Heidelberg . . . the chateau country of the breathtaking Alps. For relaxation, try the famous health-restoring Spas . . . restaurants where gourmets convene . . . the sidewalk cafes and continental clubs. Or simply concentrate on Paris. She’s gayer, more enticing than ever. But no matter how much you do see . . . there’s so much more, you’ll promise to return long before your trip is over . . . and you’ll covet every minute a Clipper can save you.
Who couldn’t love Paris any moment of the year? Montmartre, the Latin Quarter, the Arc, the Left Bank. And the incomparable French cuisine. Wherever you pause in the heart of the continent . . . throughout France or the Netherlands, Belgium or Luxembourg ... in Vienna or high in the Alps ... in the Black Forest or storybook German towns . . . you’ve a lifetime of memories in the making.
6
You Can Travel NOW Because You Can PAY LATER
You don’t have to put off your Clipper trip to Europe a minute longer. There’s no need to wait till you can pay cash in advance. Or to touch your savings or investments. Because Pan American’s sensational Pay Later Plan permits you to go on your trip right now . . . pay as little as 10% down . . . and then take care of the balance out of income in convenient amounts over a period of up to 20 months.
It’s just what Americans have been waiting for. And though now widely imitated, this Plan is still the most popular. And it’s easily arranged through any PAA office or authorized Pan Am Travel Agent in a single visit with a single signature. No collateral, no complicated financing.
Under the Plan you can budget your air transportation and all or any part of your hotel accommodations, sightseeing and ground travel abroad — practically everything.
Save During “Thrift Season”
More people are going to Europe dining the winter months because everything costs less during "Thrift Season”, even your Clipper fare. Yet many consider winter the best time to visit Europe. For it’s the Opera, theatre and concert season. The gay continental life is at its height in romantic cities like Paris, Rome and Vienna. Skiing and winter sports are in full swing up in the resorts. What’s more, during this period you can take advantage of Pan Am’s Family Fare Plan. Under this plan, one adult member of the family pays full fare, while other members can save up to $300 each on their fare costs.
Going then, you escape the peak tourist crowds. You have the unhurried opportunity of seeing the real Europe from her exciting capitals to her fascinating towns and unforgettable villages. You enjoy better selections and pay less for them, too. Not only at hotels and restaurants, etc., but on many take-home purchases you make.
Best of all during this "Thrift Season” between November and March, Pan American fares . . . even on the low-cost Rainbow . . . are reduced.
Continued on Page 9.