FOR MORE INFORMATION
This book is as accurate as reasonable and painstaking care can make it. However, dates and locations of the trade fairs listed here can and may be changed. Accordingly, Pan Am cannot accept responsibility for the accuracy of this publication and offers this advice - always check the dates of the fairs you plan to attend or in which you plan to exhibit, with your local Pan Am Cargo representative or with the sponsoring organization.
For further information that will help you do business abroad with greater efficiency and ease, you will find these publications particularly helpful:
Exporters’ Encyclopedia (annual), published by Dun and Brad-street, 466 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017. Includes regulations and procedures, information on preparing export shipments; lists world ports, freight forwarders, government agencies and foreign trade organizations. ($100.00)
Business Abroad (monthly), also published by Dun and Brad-street; helpful for businessmen who sell, ship and operate abroad. ($10.00 per year)
World Trade Data Yearbook, an annual reference volume compiled and edited by the Business Abroad staff. ($5.00)
Commerce Today (bi-weekly), published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, containing information on where, what and how to sell overseas. (Annual subscription, $20; foreign mailing, $6.25 additional.)
Pan Am’s Worldwide Marketing Horizons (six times per year), contains data on international markets, case histories and specific information pertaining to worldwide air distribution. A special feature, Marketing Opportunities for Buyers and Sellers, is a worldwide listing of concerns seeking contacts for importing and exporting consumer and industrial goods and products. (Write to Editor, Worldwide Marketing Horizons, Pan American World Airways, Pan Am Building, New York, N.Y. 10017.)
Pan Am Area Marketing Guides Africa, Europe, Asia, South Pacific, South America, Central America, United States. Handy reference series with country-by-country information on imports, exports, documentation requirements, communications, warehousing, buying and advisory agencies.
Easiest of all, bring your questions and problems to Pan Am. A Pan Am Cargo representative will be happy to explain the functions of Worldwide Marketing Service, available to you at any time without cost or obligation.
92