□	Service your foreign customer.
The quickest way to lose business is to fail to provide service. Once you make a sale, be prepared to provide complete service and fast delivery of spare parts. By using Clipper Cargo to back up service to your overseas customers, you can promise delivery in a day or two at most - often faster than the service local competitors can offer. What’s more, you’ll release capital tied up in overseas inventories and save the cost of maintaining overseas warehouses.
□	Give specifications in the metric system.
The English-speaking nations are out of step with the world when it comes to measurements. Most of the world uses the metric system. Be prepared to provide metric conversion tables applicable to your equipment.
□	Leap the language barrier.
Have your sales literature, catalogs, specifications and advertising prepared in the language of the country. Hire professional translators and interpreters. Learn a language yourself.
□	What about credit and payment?
Sound payment policies for export accounts are little different from domestic policies. You should, of course, be concerned about credit standings of your foreign representatives. Consult the international department of your bank and other private credit agencies. You’ll also want to look into government-sponsored credit risk insurance which offers low-cost protection against credit losses - commercial and political - as a further incentive to spur world trade.
□	Protect your patents and trademark rights.
If you own valuable patents and trademarks, you should get advance counsel from your patent attorney on extending this protection to overseas markets. Most nations offer some protection on patents and trademarks.
□	Fly your exhibit materials to the fair.
Air cargo insures that even the most delicate shipment arrives safely, on time, ready to go on display. You’ll save on insurance, packing and unpacking costs, too. Pan Am offers direct shipments to most of the nations listed in this directory and responsible, Pan Am-trained ground crews see to it that your shipment gets the top priority handling it deserves.
The World’s Total Air Cargo System. We work at it.
77