□	Learn all you can about the specific fair.
When you enter a foreign trade show, make certain you know all its rules, exhibiting hours, utility requirements, and its services and facilities available for your use.
□	Send a decision-maker to the fair.
Your man at the fair should be a decision-maker who knows your marketing goals. If you are exhibiting technical equipment, send along an engineer to explain the nuts-and-bolts.
□	Arrive early, stay late.
Plan to arrive at the fair site a few days before the show opens to be sure your booth is in order and exhibits are operating. If you can spare the time, stay over for a week or two after the fair ends in order to follow through with new leads.
□	Business and pleasure don’t mix.
Exhibiting at trade fairs is serious business. Man your booth at all times - empty booths don’t sell. Give your full attention to the visitor - he may be your next customer.
□	Give distributors samples of your products.
Confucius said that a picture is worth a thousand words; but once you have named your distributor, a sample of your product for him to show prospective customers will generate far more sales than a picture in a sales catalog.
□	Don’t forget about advertising.
While many exhibitors buy advertising space in the catalogs published by the sponsors of international trade fairs, it is good business to place an attractive ad in leading overseas trade journals and business periodicals before the fair opens. Invite the reader to view your product at the fair; tell him the location of your booth. You could also consider direct mail invitations to selected key prospects. Mailing lists can be obtained from trade organizations, agencies, publications, chambers of commerce and government sources.
□	Check on import duties and trade restrictions.
Most countries use controls for some imports. Your local Pan Am office will help you get the information. The local consulates of foreign countries also have this intelligence.
□	Learn about foreign business practices.
Familiarize yourself with foreign business practices before you take a trip abroad. Check such things as local holidays (you’ll find them listed in this directory), vacation and seasonal market periods.
□	Select a good overseas distributor.
If possible, it’s a good idea to line up a distributor before the fair. He can familiarize himself with your products and your organization during the exhibition and, of course, he will have an opportunity to meet and establish contacts with prospective customers who visit your booth. Here again, Pan Am’s Worldwide Marketing Service can be of considerable assistance to you. Our staff of trained marketing specialists in 84 lands will help you locate a qualified person to represent you overseas - as an agent, a distributor or a licensee. This service is performed free of cost or obligation.
□	Quote full prices.
Be prepared to quote c.i.f. (cost, insurance, freight) prices to your foreign buyers. An f.o.b. price has little, if any, significance in international trading. Also be prepared to set delivery dates.
76