The Direct Route To Overseas Profits
Today, a new world of profit opportunities has opened up for international marketers. The ten-mile-a-minute jet aircraft has made it possible. And, at the same time, has made it both easy and practical for distant buyers and suppliers, or others with common interests, to get together.
In recognition of the value of person-to-person contact, hundreds of trade fairs are scheduled every year in the major trading areas around the world. These fairs, plus other business exhibits, conventions, meetings and conferences do more than offer a showcase for products. They provide an opportunity to discover new sources of supply ... to size up competition and market conditions ... to talk in person with buyers, sellers, and agents ... or to meet with others in your business or profession.
In this 1972 Directory of International trade fairs, exhibitions, meetings and conferences, you’ll find over 2,000 listings, classified by product, in 70 nations. Almost certainly, the product you could be profitably selling overseas belongs in one or more of these industrial or consumer categories. And just as surely, you’ll find that your participation can open up direct-to-the-market opportunities at minimum risk and expense.
This year, to help you plan ahead, we have, where information was available, listed fairs, meetings and conventions to be held in 1973 and 1974 as well as those to be held in 1972. Check the index on the following pages. Then look over the appropriate listings with reference to those markets that appear to hold the greatest promise for you. If you wish more information about a specific fair or fairs, contact your Pan Am® Sales Representative or your nearest Pan Am sales office.
A word of caution: Pan Am has been in contact with government and trade fair officials and organizations around the world to assemble information for this directory. We have made every effort to make these listings as accurate and as complete as possible. However, the dates and locations of some fairs and meetings were tentative or provisional at the time this Directory went to press. Moreover, scheduling changes can and do take place. Before you make specific trade fair plans it’s always a good idea to check the information given here with the sponsoring organization or with your Pan Am Cargo Representative.
4