Printed in U S,A. 1^-102	1/82
Pan Am’s Worldport is a comprehensive facility that links our domestic and international services within one terminal. You can transfer from one flight to another with as little as a four-minute walk, and at most, a six-minute walk.
And our Departure Control System (DCS) allows for the com puter generation of boarding passes and seat assignments for all Pan Am flights from any location in the Worldport.
Domestic to International
Passengers arriving at the Worldport on a domestic flight and departing on an international flight merely have to follow the clearly indicated signs to the International departure area and report to the appropriate gate. Your luggage will automatically be transferred from one flight to another.
International to Domestic
Passengers arriving at the Worldport on an international flight and departing on a domestic flight will first claim their luggage on level I before going through U.S. Customs and Immigration facilities for the exclusive use of Pan Am passengers. Upon clearing Customs, simply follow the signs to the elevators that lead to the upper level where you \Sfind your appropriate departure gate. Your luggage will be transferred from Customs to your flight.
Beginning or ending a journey at the Worldport
Passengers who are beginning a journey at the airport can access the Worldport using public or private transportation. Convenient curbside unloading or our own short-term parking area on top of the Worldport makes it easy to proceed directly to the appropriate check-in area for your flight.
Passengers ending a journey at the Worldport can make arrangements for bus, taxi or limousine service to New York and the metropolitan area. Courtesy phones for hotels and limousines are located on the arrivals level.
Worldport signs
Universal signs have been located throughout the Worldport to make it easy to get from one area to another. In addition, television screens have been situated within the terminal to provide you with: up-to-the-minute arrival and departure times, gate locations, and baggage claim areas.
Any questions can be directed to our Passenger Service representatives.
Worldport facilities
The easy to read illustration on the reverse clearly indicates the location of the many facilities you’ll find in the Worldport. A coded key will assist you in locating these facilities.