London
WILL CHARM YOU
In London you’ll find that even today business holds to the charming custom of stopping at 11 and again at 4 for its spot of tiffin as in the time of Dickens’ Mr. Pickwick. And if you like to turn time backward, you’ll tiptoe in awe through the stately halls of the Tower where history clings like the moss on its ancient ramparts. Or you’ll visit Westminster Abbey to stand upon the spot where generations of English kings have been enthroned. Even at the theatre you’ll find reminders of the past. At beloved Old Drury a liveried attendant in knee breeches and white stockings helps you with your coat, shows you to your seat.
Or perhaps you’d like to see how the other half lives. Best place to start is in Soho, London’s sprawling foreign quarter. Here you’ll find whole streets given over to intimate little cafes, where London’s musicians, actors, writers and artists have their favorite haunts. At the other end of the social scale is the exclusive Mayfair district. Here you may mingle with the titled, dine elegantly and dance far into the night at clubs whose only condition of admittance is that you sign the register.
There are art exhibitions to see at the Royal Academy and National Gallery . . . London’s lovely parks to explore, Kensington Gardens, for instance, where the spirit of Peter Pan still lives. Or take a bus from Piccadilly simply because its destination has an appealing sound — Cricklewood, Elephant and Castle, Hackney Wick. And for your shopping tours — Jermyn Street and Savile Row, famed for impeccable tailoring for men, while fashionable Regent and Bond Streets specialize in incomparable British tweeds and leather accessories for women.
Europe
is waiting for You
VIA
Pa/sí	Am nr
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE

ALL THE WAY
. . . when you head for Europe by Clipper. For you’re so comfortable, flying above the weather, and so fascinated by all that’s going on inside and outside your Pan American Clipper that you arrive in Europe all too soon. Surrounded by congenial passengers in a holiday mood, you relax in a cloud-soft chair that adjusts to the exact angle you want for chatting, sightseeing or catnapping.
Courteous cabin attendants see to your needs and serve you delicious full-course meals at no extra charge. And, there’s no tipping aboard Clippers. Best of all, however, is the peace of mind you have knowing you’re flying the “World’s Most Experienced Airline” — the one that flies to all six continents and around the world and carries more people abroad from the United States than any other airline.
Clipper Trade-Mark Reg. U. S. Pat. Off.
MORE THRILLING THAN EVER
Can’t you see yourself stepping out in Europe? And doesn’t the thought almost take your breath away? Europe, the sentimental goal of almost every traveler! The Europe of yesterday . . of Elizabeth and Napoleon ... of Dante and Shakespeare, Beethoven and Michelangelo. The Europe of today, vibrant with renewed energy, using her famed skills and artistry to blaze new trails, pioneer new trends and new products. And, it doesn’t matter when you visit Europe. Or where. For Europe’s presenting more Fairs and Festivals than ever before, doing all she can to attract visitors and make their stay more enjoyable. So — get set for the time of your life.
That’s what awaits you in Europe.