ENCHANTED
PARIS
N all the world there is no city like Paris. You’ll find her alluring, exciting, always surprising. You’ll do the town with a spring in your stride and a song in your heart. Wine and dine in the gourmet style that only French chefs and vintage wines make possible. Dance to le jazz hot or gypsy strings. Make the rounds from the can-can shows and raucous Place Pigalle to the plushier clubs, with their buckets of champagne.
You’ll find Paris and her women as chic as ever, her cabs more quaint, her postered kiosks even more colorful. From springtime on, of course, you’ll be outdoors with the rest of Paris . . . at sidewalk cafés or out along the boulevards among the flowers and fountains. With the petit bourgeois at Jardín des Tuileries, or young lovers of the Left Bank at the famed Gardens of Luxembourg.
You’ll browse among the bookstalls and flower stands in the shadow of Notre Dame . . . shop from the Flea Market to the fashionable stores and the swank salons of world-famed coutourièrs. You’ll roam the web of streets of the Latin Quarter and Montparnasse and be fascinated by the outdoor art exhibits. Relive “La Bohème” among the students and legends of the Sorbonne . . . walking up Boul’ Mich ... or seated in the tiny cafés with artists and writers known round the world. Do Montmartre, the fabled Bohemian section, riding the cable railway or climbing the steps and winding streets to the beautiful church of Sacré-Coeur.
See Les Invalides with its tomb of Napoléon, Church of the Madeleine, the Pantheon, and, of course, the Mona Lisa and countless other objets d’art in the Louvre.
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE
Wherever in the world you go, Pan Am Clippers will take you there in speed and comfort. For Pan Am flies the world’s finest aircraft and has made over 45,000 transatlantic and 30,000 transpacific flights, more than 35,000 Equator crossings, and over 1,700 Round the World trips.
Carrying more passengers abroad than., any other U. S. airline and with an unsurpassed record in 28 years of flight experience, Pan American is the first choice of every experienced air traveler.
ROME
FULFILLS LIFE-LONG DREAM
You’ll Straddle the Centuries in the Eternal City
. . . from the Arch of Titus to Victor Emmanuel’s dazzling monument, all white and gold . . . from the Pantheon and the Tiber’s old bridges to, II Duce’s balcony on the Palazzo Venezia. You’ll follow Cicero to the Forum and Colosseum, and Caesar out along the Appian Way. You’ll relive ;the days of “Fabiola” and “Quo Vadis” and the chariot races of “Ben Hur” when you visit the Circus Maximus. You’ll hear Mass, deep in the Catacombs, as the early Christians did in the years before Constantine. You’ll visit Hadrian’s Tomb, the graves of Keats and Shelley and the renowned Papal Tombs by Bernini and Canova. And, if it’s summer, attend the outdoor opera while exploring the Roman Baths of Caracalla.
PAA
«EADS
THE
WAY
Here in the Cradle of the Arts, you’ll have a field day. Michelangelo’s Moses . . . the Titians, Raphaels and Tintorettos of the Borghese Gallery . . . the Capitoline’s famous Grecian sculptures. Also, the breathtaking treasures of the Vatican Museum and Library. You’ll thrill to the Sistine Chapel’s famous frescoes, particularly the awe-inspiring “Creation”. Regardless of your religious faith, the grandeur of St. Peter’s will leave you groping for words. Be sure to climb the 700 steps for the spectacular view from the great dome. Rome’s hundreds of churches would take a lifetime to explore. But don’t miss the basilicas: St. Paul’s, if only for its mosaics . . . beautiful St. Mary Major . . . also, “Pilate’s Stairs”, across the street from the Lateran, “Mother and Head of all the Churches”, with its decorations from gold that Columbus brought back with him from the New World.
Rome is ageless and a constant surprise. Memories of 25 centuries nudge you on all sides in this mature, exciting and always gracious city. You’ll find endless fascination on tours and “on your own” ... by bus or trolley, by taxi, bicycle or horse-drawn carriage.